2.The facts that you have agreed are that on 5 April 2014, at about 2.45 in the afternoon, you were driving adouble-decker bus on Heung Sze Wui Road in Tuen Mun northbound.3.Two taxis were being driven by PW1 and PW2 on the same road, but southbound.4.At that time, the roads were busy, the weather was good and the roads dry. All vehicles, including your own,approached the T-junction which was controlled by traffic lights.5.Your intended path was to turn right at the lights. The lights at that junction for your direction was in fact red at thetime. You stopped behind a taxi, but this taxi was not turning right, it intended to drive straight on. Both your pathand the taxi's path was controlled by different traffic lights.6.The taxi driver drove on because his light turned green. You followed him but turned right. This was right into thepath of PW1 in his taxi. His taxi was shunted into the next lane and hit by PW2's taxi who could not stop in time.7.Your mistake was that you should not have followed the taxi to move off. His light turned green, but your light wasstill red.8.This was a momentary lapse of judgment. I accept that you did not deliberately drive through red light. Apassenger on your bus verified that you had, in fact, stopped at the junction before moving off again.9.The result of your error meant that four persons in the first taxi that your bus hit were seriously injured. Thisincluded a three year old boy who suffered a fractured right tibia and fibula. The driver of the first taxi sufferedabrasions, second taxi driver suffered from chest contusions and neck pain, and two other passengers of the firsttaxi driver who were with the child suffered serious enough injuries, they and all the others I have referred to spenta number of days in hospital.10.I don't have any evidence to the contrary, but I am assuming, unless I am told otherwise, they have made a fullrecovery, and there is no information that any have suffered any permanent damage from their injuries. I make theassumption and hope that they have made a full recovery.11.You have a clear record, and you obtained your driving licence in 1995. You have one careless drivingconviction, the offence date was in 2013, for which you were fined $900 in Tuen Mun Magistracy. This is not a badtraffic record.12.You are 43 years old, you came to Hong Kong from mainland China in 1992. You married in 2000, and you andyour wife have a 13-year-old and a 7-year-old. I have been told that your wife works as well, but you are the mainbreadwinner.13.You have been gainfully employed since 1992, and had been employed in numerous professions, but for twoyears, from 2012, you were a bus driver. Since this accident, you no longer drive a bus, you are now a constructionsite worker.14.I have been told that your wife is not well, she is suffering from mixed anxiety depression disorder, and I have areferral letter dated last week referring her to the Department of Psychiatry in Tuen Mun Hospital. It seems thatissues may have arisen from the stress of childcare, in particular, caring for a teenage daughter, but I am sure ithas been exacerbated by this accident and this pending court date.15.Your best mitigation is your plea of guilty. You have accepted there was a momentary lapse of judgment, andyou are remorseful.16.I accept defence counsel's submission that facts in this case are not the most serious for the nature of thisoffence, and you did not deliberately jump the red light. Sadly, your momentary error led to an accident which hadserious consequences.17.I have been referred to two authorities by Mr McGowan, HKSAR v Lui Chung Tak CACC 221/2012and HKSAR v Lee Yau Wing CACC 282/2012. I have referred myself to both authorities, in particular in Lui Chung Tak, Court of Appeal refers to several similarcases and sentences imposed. Sentences vary, because for this type of offence, there is no tariff. Sentencing willdepend on individual circumstances and the determinable degree of culpability and criminality.18.In this case, I find the defendant's culpability at the low end of the spectrum.19.Defendant, please stand up. Having considered those authorities I have just referred to, mitigation put forwardon your behalf and your background, as well as the facts of this case, a term of imprisonment would be appropriate.However, before I consider that, I intend to call for a community service order report. This does not mean that I willimpose a community service order, but I want report before I sentence. You must be aware that all sentencingoptions will remain open. I will adjourn this for such a report and I will remand you in custody while I call for such areport.