Tort - nuisance - water leakage from premises to premises immediately below - whether owner of former premises liable
Land law - building management - water leakage from premises to premises immediately below - whether owner of former premises in breach of deed of mutual covenant
Damages - assessment - water leakage from premises to premises immediately below 1. In this action, the plaintiffs claim damages in respect of water leakage from the 1st defendant's premises for the period from early 2006 to late 2009.
2. The plaintiffs' premises are situated at the 3rd Floor of Aberdeen Harbour Mansion (" the Building "), Nos. 52-64 Aberdeen Main Road, Hong Kong (" the plaintiffs' Property "). The 1st plaintiff has been the registered owner of the plaintiffs' Property since its acquisition of the same in July 1998. With the licence and consent of the 1st plaintiff, the 2nd plaintiff has operated its elderly home business at the plaintiffs' Property ever since. The plaintiffs share common shareholders.
3. According to the Deed of Mutual Covenants of the Building dated 18 September 1972 (" the DMC "), the Building has 21 floors. From the 4th floor to the 17th floor, there are 10 apartments on each floor and from the 18th to the 21st floor, there are 8. The 10 apartments on the 4th floor were identified in alphabets from A to J. On each of the 4th and the 18th floors there is a flat roof and each of the individual owners of the apartments on these two floors has exclusive right to use, occupy and enjoy such portions of the flat roofs.
4. The 1st defendant's premises were situated immediately above the plaintiffs' Property. It comprised an apartment known to be Apartment J on the 4th Floor of the Building together with a portion of the flat roof (collectively " the 1st defendant's Property "). The 1st defendant was the registered owner of the 1st defendant's Property from 10 November 2004 to 30 June 2009. By an assignment dated 30 June 2009, the 1st defendant assigned the 1st defendant's Property to one Yeoh Kheng Yau. The latter by an assignment dated 29 January 2010 assigned the 1st defendant's Property to the 2nd defendant. By a Notice of Discontinuance dated 27 July 2011, the plaintiffs discontinued the present action against the 2nd defendant. Hence, this trial concerns the 1st defendant only.
5. The plaintiffs' pleaded case is that the water seepage was due to the demolition works in respect of an illegal structure erected on and over the flat roof of the 1st defendant's Property and, subsequent thereto, alternation works of the same in early 2006. The alternation works involved repartitioning of Apartment J into 3 individual rooms with separate shower rooms and toilet facilities. The toilet facilities and water pipes at the 3 rooms were ill-maintained or installed badly. The plaintiffs further allege that a pothole (2.5 feet in length x 1 foot in width x 3 inches in depth) was created on the flat roof in the course of the demolition works and the alternation works and above the pothole there was a water tap. The plaintiffs aver that the pothole aggravated the water seepage.
6. The plaintiffs hence aver that the 1st defendant was negligent and he failed his duty to maintain his premises in good repair and condition pursuant to section 34H of the Building Management Ordinance, Cap.344 (" the BMO ") and Clause 3(B)(e) of the DMC. The plaintiffs also rely on the tort of nuisance, which, as they contend, also constitutes a breach of Clause 10(c) of the DMC.
7. Clause 3(B)(e) of the DMC in gist provides that the owners of the flats on the 4th and 18th floors of the Building having exclusive right to use, occupy and enjoy such portion of the flat roof on the 4th and 18th floor shall each be responsible for the repair and maintenance of such portions of the said flat roof as they shall respectively have the right of the exclusive use and enjoyment thereof.
8. Clause 10(c) of the DMC provides that each owner covenants with other owners not to use his part of the Building for any illegal or immoral purpose nor do or permit anything therein or thereupon which may be a nuisance or annoyance to or may cause damage or inconvenience to the other occupiers of the Building.
9. As a result of the water seepage originating from the 1st defendant's Property, the plaintiffs claim to have suffered financial loss including the repair costs in the sum of HK$191,345.71 and loss of business of the 2nd plaintiff. At trial, Mr Lo, counsel for the plaintiffs, indicated that the plaintiffs only ask for recovery of the repair costs. 