Tort - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below - whether owner of former premises liable - source of seepage - whether owner of former premises had taken reasonable steps to remedy problem
Damages - assessment - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below 1. This is a water seepage case happened in a domestic building known as Block C, Hong Lam Court in Shatin. At all material times, the plaintiffs ("Ps") are the registered owners of flat 10 on the 13th floor of the said building ("Ps' Flat") and the defendant ("D") is the registered owner of flat 10 on the 14th floor ("D's Flat"), directly above Ps' Flat.
2. Ps purchased their flat on 3 April 2014 and the conveyancing completed on 15 May 2014. Decoration works commenced in August 2014. Since then the second named P, Madam Chan, found seepage of water with foul odour and paint peeling off at the ceilings of the balcony, toilet and kitchen of her flat ("the Affected Area"). Ps then complained to the management office of Hong Lam Court ("the Manager") and Buildings Department / Food and Environment Hygiene Department Joint Office ("the Joint Office") respectively.
3. Having inspected the parties' respective flats on various dates in August 2014, the Manager found mild seepage problem at the joint of the common sewage drainage situated at the balcony of D's Flat, and thus arranged replacement of part of the sewage drainage at D's Flat on 12 August 2014.
4. After Ps moved in their flat in November 2014, they alleged that the water seepage with foul odour and peeling off problem still persisted in their flat. Although they had the Affected Area repainted, such problem still recurred. They then turned to the Manager again who arranged replacement of segments of the common sewage drainage located in Ps' Flat twice on 27 November and 29 December 2014 respectively.
5. The Joint Office instructed contractors to conduct investigation and tests at both flats thrice in three consecutive years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Only the 2015 investigation confirmed water seepage from part of the common sewage drainage situated at D's Flat into the Ps' Affected Area, whereas the other two investigations had negative results. On 2 October 2015, the Joint Office issued a nuisance notice to D for causing the water seepage at Ps' Flat.
6. Ps' solicitors issued a demand letter to D on 30 June 2015 and commenced the present action on 15 July 2015 seeking damages and mandatory injunction to stop the water seepage based on the following causes of action: 
 (i) Negligence;
 (ii) Nuisance and/or trespass;
 7. D was of the view that the Manager should be responsible for the common sewage drainage and referred the matter to the Manager who then carried out improvement works again on 21 December 2015, including replacing a segment of the common sewage drainage, repairing part of the waterproofing membrane in the balcony floor slab around the common sewage drainage.
8. On 3 October 2016, the Joint Office informed D of their decision to stay all follow-up actions.
9. Like many similar cases, parties have sought leave to adduce expert evidence on both issues of liability and quantum. Ps engaged Ms Lau Shan La who inspected Ps' Flat on 20 April and 9 May 2015, but without the opportunity to enter D's Flat. She eventually compiled her expert report on 15 June 2015. D engaged Mr Lo Kwok Kay who inspected both flats on 17 June 2016 and compiled his expert report dated 28 June 2016. The experts also prepared a joint statement dated 22 September 2016 pursuant to O38 r38 of the Rules of the District Court.
10. Ms Lau for Ps opined that the cause of the water seepage at the Affected Area being the damaged waterproofing layer of D's balcony floor (including the surrounding wall) and the related dirty water drainages (including the toilet bowl dirty water drainage, shower tray dirty water drainage and balcony floor drain sewage drainage) of D's Flat. The water seepage extended from the kitchen ceiling and the balcony ceiling to the toilet ceiling of Ps' Flat.
11. On the contrary, Mr Lo for the D, opined that the waterproofing layers of balcony floor slab and shower tray floor slab, all related drainage pipes (including waste water pipes) and water supply pipes of D's Flat did not suffer from any water seepage or leakage, and the source of Ps' water seepage was not from D's Flat. 12. The issues in dispute as per the Agreed Statement of Issues in Dispute are as follows: 
 (i) whether there has been water seepage at Ps' Flat since or about August 2014;
 (ii) whether the water seepage is continuing since August 2014, if not, when did the water seepage / leakage stop;
 (iii) whether the source of the water seepage originates from D's Flat;
 (iv) whether D at all material times had taken all reasonable steps in rectifying the water seepage;
 (v) whether the water seepage was and/or is caused by the negligence of D;
 (vi) whether the water seepage caused and/or causes nuisance and/or trespass to Ps, and if so, whether D was and/or is responsible for the said nuisance and/or trespass;
 (vii) if the above issues were proved in favour of Ps, did Ps suffer any damages,
 (viii) and if so, whether D is liable for the damages and/or other reliefs; and
 (ix) the quantum of any damages.
 