Tort - nuisance - common law nuisance - breach of covenant restricting nuisance, annoyance or damage - alleged noises from premises to premises immediately below - whether existed and emanated from defendant's premises - whether nature, character and/or amplitude of noises constituted nuisance 5. At the material times, the parties both lived in Block 4 of Pristine Villa, No 18 Pak Lok Path, Shatin, New Territories ("the Building"). The plaintiff was and is the owner and occupier of Flat 7C ("Flat 7C"). The defendant was the tenant of the flat located directly above the plaintiff's at Flat 8C ("Flat 8C").
6. The plaintiff and his wife moved into Flat 7C in or around September 1997 when the development was first completed and ready for occupation. They have been occupying Flat 7C ever since.
7. The plaintiff retired in about 2004 and has been spending most of his time at home since his retirement. Before he retired, he and his wife used to run a private school and 2 kindergartens.
8. The defendant and his family occupied Flat 8C as tenants from September 2009 to September 2013. The occupants of Flat 8C included the defendant, his wife, their two daughters (one was born during their occupancy) and a maid. From time to time, the defendant's mother-in-law would also stay in Flat 8C before their second daughter was born. The defendant's elder daughter was about 1 year and 9 months old when they first moved into Flat 8C in September 2009. The second daughter was born in November 2010 after they had moved into the flat. The mother-in-law moved into the flat after the second daughter was born.x
9. The defendant is a professor in physical education in a local university. The defendant's wife is a full-time physical education teacher at a secondary school.
 Layout of flats
 10. Pristine Villa is a residential development situated in Shatin, featuring 14 blocks of residential apartments, with a club house that provides comprehensive recreational facilities. Block 4, in which Flat 7C and Flat 8C are situated, faces Pak Lok Path which overlooks a tennis court and playground with some greenery landscape. It is generally located in a very quiet environment.
11. There are nine floors of apartments in Block 4 with 4 Flats on each floor. The layouts from level 5 to level 9 are identical. All flats have three bedrooms and a storeroom. The master bedroom in each flat is fitted with an ensuite bathroom. They are situated at the far end of the flat. The storeroom is designed with its entrance facing the kitchen. It is commonly used as a maid's quarter.
12. Flat 8C locates immediately above 7C. They have identical layouts.
 Chronology of the noise dispute
 13. The following chronology is constructed from the logbook maintained by the management office of the development known as the Customer Service Office ("the CSO"). The CSO logbook was provided by both parties as contemporaneous documentary evidence to support their respective case, although the contents of the logbook given to the defendant, for reasons could not be explained by the officer from the CSO, were slightly different from that provided to the plaintiff.
14. On 1 December 2009, the plaintiff complained to the CSO about hearing noises coming from the unit above in recent month(s), caused by footsteps and moving furniture after 11:00 pm and started again at 6:30 am.
15. The complaint was handled by Mr Pang Kit Hung ("Pang"), who was then the senior administrative officer at the CSO.
16. Pang immediately telephoned Flat 8C and spoke to the defendant regarding the matter. The CSO also issued a notice on 2 December 2009 to advise the occupants of Flat C in all levels of the Building to take care not to cause excessive noises at "midnight, early hours of the morning and early morning".
17. On 3 December 2009, the plaintiff and his wife went up to Flat 8C, knocked on its door and confronted the defendant about the alleged noises. An argument between the parties ensured. The defendant complained to the CSO on the same day regarding the plaintiff banging hard on his door, and that on an earlier date an unusual yellow charm was found stuck next to the entrance of Flat 8C.
18. On 28 December 2009, the plaintiff complained to the CSO again regarding hearing similar noises caused by footsteps, furniture moving and opening and closing of doors. The CSO issued on the same day a notice to advise occupants in Flat C on levels 5, 6, 8 and 9 of Block 4, ie Flat 5C, 6C, 8C and 9C respectively to take care not to create excessive noises at late hours.
19. On 6 January 2010, the plaintiff's wife complained to the CSO regarding excessive noises at around 6:00 am mainly caused by footfall on slippers. The CSO issued a notice on the same day to advise all residents of Flat C to take care to avoid making excessive noises. Pang also rang the occupants of Flat 5C, Flat 6C, Flat 8C and Flat 9C regarding the matter. The occupants of Flat 9C and 5C reported hearing no excessive noises, while the occupants of Flat 6C reported hearing unusual noise only once during the previous month, but were uncertain about what kind of noise it was.
20. In the morning on 11 January 2010, the plaintiff's wife confronted the defendant and the defendant's wife at the elevator of Block 4 about excessive noises that occurred late in the previous night. The defendant denied the allegation, saying that they had slept early the night before. The plaintiff's wife then complained about the matter to the CSO. A notice was issued on 12 January 2010 by the CSO to the occupants of Flats C on levels 6 to 8.
21. On 13 January 2010, Pang contacted the plaintiff's wife to follow up on the noise matter. The plaintiff's wife informed Pang that "the noise situation has improved". (" 情況轉向良好 ").
22. In the early morning on 15 January 2010, on the request of the plaintiff's wife, the CSO sent two of their staff with sound measuring equipment to Flat 7C to investigate the alleged noise nuisance. According to the CSO staff, the noise was not loud and seemed to have been caused by daily activities on the upper floors. However, they could not be certain where about the noise had come from.
23. On the same day after the CSO staff performed their test, Pang rang the plaintiff to follow up on the matter. The plaintiff replied by saying that "the noise situation was good". (" 情況良好 ").
24. According to the CSO logbook, after the last complaint made by the plaintiff and his wife on 11 January 2010, they did not make any noise complaint again until 16 January 2011, ie about 12 months later.
25. On 16 January 2011, the plaintiff and his wife complained to the CSO about noises coming from above their unit again. The CSO contacted Flat 8C. The defendant explained that the alleged noises could have been coming from normal daily activities. In any event, the CSO issued a notice on 17 January 2011 to advise occupants in all Flat C in Block 4 to take care to minimize their noise level.
26. The next recorded complaint made by the plaintiff and his wife was on 19 July 2011, ie another 6 months later. In response, the CSO issued another notice to advise occupants to take care not to create excessive noises.
27. On 11 December 2011, it was the defendant and not the plaintiff who had made the complaint. At around 9:00 pm on that day, the defendant complained to the CSO that he had heard noise that seemed to have been caused by the tapping of the ceiling from Flat 7C. He also complained of the voice of a woman who was yelling from Flat 7C.
28. Two staff of the CSO went to Flat 8C to investigate the matter. The defendant asked the CSO staff to pull a chair using normal force, which then elicited tapping of the ceiling in Flat 7C and a woman's yelling from Flat 7C. The matter was then reported to the police by the defendant for record purposes.
29. The last recorded incident was on 9 April 2012 when the plaintiff's wife complained about the defendant using a vacuum cleaner at around 8:30 am on a holiday. 