Tort - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to presmises immediately below - whether owners of former premises liable
Damages - assessment - water seepage from premises to presmises immediately below 1. This is a water seepage case involving two units of a multi-story building known as Tower 1, The Astoria, No 198 Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong ("the Building"). The plaintiff is the registered owner of Flat A on the 6th Floor ("Flat 6A") of the Building whilst the defendants are the registered owners of the flat immediately above ("Flat 7A").
2. The occupation permit of the Building was issued on 14 June 1991. It is common ground that both Flat 7A and Flat 6A are subject to a Deed of Mutual Covenant registered in the Land Registry by Memorial No 4995394 ("the DMC"). Clause 13 of Section IV of the DMC provides that:- "Each owner shall maintain in good repair and condition his Unit to the satisfaction of the Manager and in such manner as to avoid any loss, damage, nuisance or annoyance to the Owners or occupiers of any other part or parts of the Building".
3. The saleable area of each of Flat 7A and Flat 6A is about 923 square feet. Each of Flat 7A and Flat 6A has a living/dining room, a master bedroom with master bathroom, two bedrooms and a guest bathroom.
4. The plaintiff became the registered owner of Flat 6A on 9 August 2010 and has been living at Flat 6A with her parents shortly after 9 August 2010.
5. The defendants are an elderly married couple who are and were at all material times living at Flat 7A.
6. On 15 August 2011, the plaintiff commenced the present action against the defendants claiming damages for water seepage. She claims that the defendants are liable to her for breach of Clause 13 of Section IV of the DMC and in nuisance and negligence. The plaintiff also claims for a mandatory and prohibitory injunction.
7. The particulars of the plaintiff's claim can be summarised as follows 1 :- 
 (1) In or about December 2010, water was found emerging along the foot of the walls in the dining room, corridor, and the wall in the master bedroom near the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (2) In or about early January 2011, water was found emerging from underneath the bathtub in the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (3) In or about mid-January 2011, water was found emerging from the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (4) In or around mid-March 2011, sewage was found emerging from the master bathroom and walls of the dining room of Flat 6A;
 (5) On or about 19 October 2011, water was found to seep through a branch waste pipe connecting to the outlet of vertical floor drain in the master bathroom of Flat 7A to the skirting of the living room of Flat 6A;
 (6) On or around 19 July 2012, water was found to seep through the floor slab underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A to the ceilings and walls of Flat 6A; and
 (7) On or around 16 August 2012, water was found to seep through the floor slab underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A to the ceilings and walls of Flat 6A.
 
8. The defence denies that any water seepage had occurred in Flat 6A. Further or alternatively, if any water seepage had occurred in Flat 6A, the defence case is that 2 :- 
 (1) Water seepage was caused by water emanating and/or otherwise originating from the fresh water pipes of Flat 6A, including those concealed in the walls in the master bathroom of Flat 6A at a position between the water heater and the faucet of the bathtub, and/or from the rims of the bathtub in the master bathroom, and/or from the drainage pipe fittings of the bathtub in the master bathroom;
 (2) As a result of such water seepage, water accumulated in the floor recess underneath the bathtub in the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (3) The water which had thus accumulated seeped along the floor slab of the master bedroom of Flat 6A into other parts of Flat 6A, thereby causing seepage to the areas of Flat 6A set out in §§7(1), (2) and (4) of the Amended Statement of Claim;
 (4) As regards water seepage at the ceiling in the master bedroom of Flat 6A, water did not emanate or otherwise originate from Flat 7A; and
 (5) Moreover, there was dilapidation in the external wall of Flat 6A and Flat 7A which may have caused and/or contributed to the water seepage in the ceilings of Flat 6A.
 
9. As agreed between the parties in the Joint Statement of Issues in Dispute dated 12 November 2015, the main issues in dispute in this case are: (1) whether any water seepage at Flat 6A originated from Flat 7A or from other sources; (2) insofar as the water seepage originated from Flat 7A, the period during which Flat 6A was affected by the water seepage, and whether such seepage has already cased and, if so, when? (3) whether the defendants are liable to the plaintiff for negligence, nuisance and breach of the DMC; and insofar as the defendants are held liable, what loss and damage the plaintiff has suffered as a result of the water seepage, and whether the plaintiff has properly mitigated the loss and damage?
10. Some of these issues overlap to a large extent and where appropriate they will be dealt with together. 