Land law - building management - closure by incorporated owners (IO) of basement of building where parking lots situated, for purpose of repair and renovation - acts done by IO during period of repair and renovation which deprived owner of access to car parks - whether constituted breach of deed of mutual covenant - whether IO authorized to do acts in question
Tort - private nuisance - closure by incorporated owners (IO) of basement of building where parking lots situated, for purpose of repair and renovation - acts done by IO during period of repair and renovation which deprived owner of access to car parks - whether constituted interference with owner's right to property
Damages - assessment - breach by incorporated owners of deed of mutual covenant - private nuisance - whether owner suffered actual loss 1. This is an action commenced by The Incorporated Owners of Tung Lo Court ("the "IO") for an order for sale against Madam Leung May Chun Alison Aliance ("Madam Leung") to enforce 18 memoranda of charge registered by the IO against 6 car parking spaces of Madam Leung at Tung Lo Court (the "Building") namely parking lot nos. 7, 15, 24, 25, 32 and 40 at the basement of the Building (the "Car Parks").
2. The IO's case was that Madam Leung owed management fees, management contributions and repair contributions payable by the owners of the Car Parks under a Deed of Mutual Covenant dated 10 October 1960 (the "DMC") in respect of the Building.
3. The claim of the IO was settled just before the trial. Hence, it was not necessary for me to deal with the IO's claim at the trial.
4. Madam Leung counterclaimed against the IO for loss caused to her by the IO's various acts in depriving her of access to the Car Parks.
5. Madam Leung had originally also counterclaimed for a declaration that the 18 memoranda of charge registered against the Car Parks were invalid. She also sought an order to discharge the said 18 memoranda of charge. As Madam Leung had settled the IO's claim before the trial, Miss Tsang representing Madam Leung, confirmed at the trial that she would not pursue these items of the counterclaim. 7. It can be seen that Madam Leung's remaining counterclaim is for breach of the DMC, interference with her interests in her properties and harassment.
8. There is no dispute that Madam Leung is and was at the material times the owners of the Car Parks.
9. All parking lots of the Building are situated at the basement of the Building (the "Basement"). The IO closed the whole Basement to carry out repairs and renovation from the evening of 14 November 2010 to 14 March 2011 (the "Works").
10. The owners and occupants of the parking lots used to have access to the Basement through the openings at Tai Po Road and Shek Kip Mei Street without security control. After the Basement was reopened on 15 March 2011, the IO introduced a system of security control for access to the Basement.
11. During the repairs and renovation, the IO installed electric bars and electric rolling shutters at both entrance at Tai Po Road and exit at Shek Kip Mei Street. The electric bars can be lifted by using smart cards issued by the management office of the Building (the "Management Office") and the electric rolling shutters are operated by staff from the Management Office upon request by phone each time (the "Security System"). There is no dispute that daily management of the Building including the Basement was and is performed by the Management Office of the IO.
12. The IO also introduced a registration system requiring all users of the car parking lots to produce copies of the driver's driving licence, the car's registration document and motor insurance policy to register with the Management Office (the "Registration System").
13. Madam Leung's case was that the closure of the Basement, the installations of the electric bars and the rolling shutters, the introduction of the Security System and the Registration System were all acts of the IO in breach of the DMC and were unlawful acts interfering with her right to sole and exclusive possession of the Car Parks and her full right and privileges to the use, occupation and enjoyment of the Car Parks. She alleged that the IO had refused to issue smart cards for the Car Parks to her before she settled the IO's claim against her.
14. After she had settled the IO's claim, Madam Leung went to the Management Office on 23 January 2013 to collect the smart cards for the Car Parks. The staff of the Management Office required her to sign a receipt for the smart cards which contained words not agreeable to Madam Leung. Madam Leung signed the receipt under protest which was not acceptable to the Management Office and the Management Office did not give her the smart cards. The position remained the same at trial.
15. Madam Leung claims loss of rentals for the Car Parks from 15 November 2010 to the date until she is able to rent out the Car Parks. 