Tort - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below - whether water originated from defendant's premises
Damages - assessment - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below 1. In this judgment, page numbers referred to herein denote page numbers of the trial bundles unless otherwise stated.
2. This is a water leakage claim transferred from the Small Claims Tribunal to this court. The parties are property owners of flats in Tower 1 (the "Building") of Greenheight Villa (the "Estate") at Shatin Heights Road, Tai Wai, Shatin, New Territories. The Estate comprises two low rise residential blocks of 4-storey each. The Building has a basement level used as car parks. There are four residential units (namely units A, B, C and D) at each floor of the Building from ground floor to second floor. Above the second floor is a roof.
3. The plaintiff is and was at the material times owner of unit C at the first floor of the Building ("Flat 1C"). Flat 1C has a living/dining room (the "Sitting Room") with a balcony (the "Balcony"), a master bedroom (the "Master Room") with bathroom ensuite (the "Master Bathroom") and closet (the "Cloakroom"), a guest bathroom (the "Guest Bathroom"), a kitchen (the "Kitchen") and two further bedrooms. One of the further bedrooms was located between the Guest Bathroom and the Kitchen (the "1st Bedroom") and the other further bedroom was located at the other side of the Kitchen and next to the Sitting Room (the "2nd Bedroom").
4. The defendants are and were at the material times owners of unit C at the second floor of the Building ("Flat 2C") and part of the roof immediately above Flat 2C (the "Roof") (together "Ds' Flat").
5. Flat 2C was located immediately above Flat 1C.
6. The plaintiff claimed that in the early morning of 19 July 2009, there was serious water seepage from Ds' Flat into Flat 1C (the "2009 Incident") causing damage to the ceiling paper and wallpaper of Flat 1C.
7. The plaintiff had to replace the damaged ceiling paper and wallpaper of Flat 1C. After the replacement, it was later found that there was further and frequent water seepage from Ds' Flat into Flat 1C (the "Water Leakage") causing damage to Flat 1C and rental loss to the plaintiff.
8. The plaintiff claimed that both the 2009 Incident and the Water Leakage were caused by the defendants' negligence and/or nuisance created by the defendants. 