Tort - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below - determination of source of seepage - if from defendant's premises, whether defendant liable - appropriate relief 
Damages - assessment - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below  1. This action was concerned with a dispute between neighbours over water seepage occurring at the plaintiff's premises situated at Office 3A, Hang Cheong Tai Building, Nos 21-23 Ko Shing Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong ("the Building") which has allegedly been sourced from the Flat Roof ("the Flat Roof") of Flat 4A ("Flat 4A"), as owned by the defendant, immediately above Office 3A. The plaintiff claimed that she suffered various loss and damages as a result of the seepage. 3. She seeks injunctive reliefs as well as damages against the defendant including (1) costs of rectifying the damage to the ceiling of Office 3A; (2) rental costs of alternative accommodation as she has been deprived of the use of Office 3A to run her business by the seepage 1 ; and (3) fee for engaging surveyor to investigate into the source of seepage.
4. The defendant does not dispute the existence of water seepage but she contends that it was not sourced from Flat 4A. She further contends that even if her premises has been the source, she is not liable because the defective waterproofing membrane at the floor slab in question dividing Office 3A and the Flat Roof is a common part. It is the responsibility of the incorporated owners of the Building ("the IO"), but not hers, to repair.
5. As for quantum, the defendant contends that plaintiff's loss and damages are not caused by the defendant even if the water seepage sourced from Flat 4A since according to her Opening Submissions 2 , there were pre-existing water seepage from other sources than Flat 4A. Further, discount has to be given for the use of Office 3A by the plaintiff's son. But when it comes to her Closing Submissions, Mr Leon Ho, counsel representing the defendant, seemed to go for another if not opposite direction by submitting that the water seepage at Office 3A was not serious and did not prevent the plaintiff from operating her business there. He also argued that the plaintiff could not move into Office 3A before 1 April 2014, and would not use Office 3A to run her business after July 2014. Regarding the surveyor's fee, the defendant says that it should form part of the costs of this action instead. 7. Before the plaintiff became the owner of Office 3A, she had been renting a shop at Ground Floor, Nos 3 and 3A, New Street, Hong Kong ("the Shop") for almost 10 years for the business of selling the Buddha statues, antiques and gems, and providing services on fortune telling and 'Fung Shui' advice. She placed many antiques and statues in the Shop, which consists of the ground floor and a cockloft with a total area of about 1,009 sq ft 3 .
8. In about early 2012, her former landlord sold the Shop to a new landlord, who then intended to repossess the Shop, and agreed to renew the tenancy agreement with the plaintiff only on a short-term basis.
9. Against such background, with the help of an estate agent Mr Wong Tak Lai Terry ("Mr Wong"), she purchased Office 3A to continue her business. Under the DMC, the ground floor of the Building is designated to be used as a shop, the 1st to 3rd Floor are office premises, and the units from the 4th Floor and upwards are for residential use. 4 
10. On 31 May 2013, the sale and purchase transaction was completed.
11. In June 2013, the plaintiff engaged a contractor to carry out renovation at Office 3A. The renovation workers found out water seepage at different areas of the ceiling of Office 3A.
12. The plaintiff requested Mr Wong to follow up the water seepage problem for her. Mr Wong subsequently talked over the matter with the defendant on phone. Some of the contents of their conversations are in dispute. To this, I shall return later at appropriate juncture below.
13. On 30 July 2013, Mr Wong also reported the water seepage problem to Food and Environmental Hygiene Department ("FEHD") for assistance. Subsequently, the joint office of FEHD and the Buildings Department ("the Joint Office") sent its officers and consultant contractors to attend Office 3A and Office 4A on various occasions to carry out inspections and tests. The officers also took down the readings of moisture content ("MC readings") at the affected areas of the ceiling of Office 3A on their visits on 22 August 2013, 4 October 2013, and 15 November 2013. 5 
14. On 13 November 2013, the plaintiff engaged Hong Kong Building Inspection & Structural Diagnostic Ltd ("HKBI") to inspect and conduct test at Office 3A to investigate into the source of seepage. On that occasion, HKBI's staff also attended Flat 4A and conduct inspection there. HKBI subsequently prepared a water seepage report dated 13 January 2014 setting out the result of their test and inspection ("HKBI survey report") 6 .
15. On 22 January 2014, the Joint Office's appointed consultant, KC Surveyors Ltd ("KC Surveyors"), carried out ponding test (with water mixed with florescent dye) to the floor slab of the Flat Roof ("the 1st ponding test"). Florescent dye was subsequently found to have appeared at the ceiling of Office 3A on the same day. 7 
16. On 5 March 2014, the plaintiff issued the Writ against the defendant under this action.
17. On 21 May 2014 and 23 June 2014, the Joint Office notified the plaintiff and the defendant respectively of the result of the 1st ponding test.
18. On 10 July 2014, the Director of Food and Environmental Hygiene issued a nuisance notice to the defendant requiring her to abate the nuisance by repair and maintain satisfactorily the floor slab of the Flat Roof ("the 1st nuisance notice") 8 .
19. On 19 August 2014, the Joint Office's officer visited Office 3A and found that some check points of the affected area of the ceiling were found with MC readings over 35%. 9 It is common ground between both experts that when MC reading of the relevant check point is over 35%, that would be an indication of an above normal moisture level. 10 The Joint Office also made a remark for such inspection that  'it revealed that water seepage (sic) still persisted. N.N. was deemed not complied'. 
20. The officer also visited the Flat Roof on the same day, and the Joint Officer also made a remark that  'no apparent sign of repair was observed from the floor slab of flat roof' , and they also referred to some photos taken of the Flat Roof on that day. 11 
21. On 20 August 2014, the Joint Office received an email from the defendant with an attachment file, containing a letter to the Joint Office denying responsibility for the water seepage. 12 In the said letter, it also stated that the water seepage case had entered into legal proceedings, and hence it was unnecessary for the Joint Office to take further action, otherwise it would be a waste of the public purse.
22. On 2 September 2014, the Joint Office sent a letter to the defendant stating that according to the investigation result of KC Surveyors, there were sign of defects of the floor slab at the Flat Roof. The defendant was also notified that the Joint Office would consider a confirmatory ponding test be arranged for the case.
23. On 5 December 2014, Prudential Surveyors International Ltd ("Prudential Surveyors"), another appointed consultant of the Joint Office, conducted another ponding test to the floor slab of the Flat Roof ("the 2nd ponding test"). Prudential Surveyors took MC readings at the ceiling of Office 3A both before and after such ponding test on the same day. This time, the ponding test result was negative, and colour dye was not found at the ceiling of Office 3A.
24. On 10 February 2015, the staff of Prudential Surveyors returned to Office 3A and obtained MC readings at different areas of the ceiling of Office 3A. They subsequently prepared their survey report dated 9 November 2015 setting out the investigation and test results.
25. Notwithstanding the 2nd ponding test result, on 5 March 2015, Mr Wong contacted the Joint Office and alleged that the affected areas were still in wet condition.
26. On 9 March 2015, the Joint Office's officer visited Office 3A again and detected new seepage areas at the ceiling. MC readings at the affected areas of the ceiling were found to be above 35%. 13 After this inspection, the Joint Office arranged colour water test ("CWT") to be performed for the water facilities at Flat 4A.
27. On 22 April 2015, the Joint Office's officer visited Office 4A and conducted CWT for the drainage outlets in the bathroom at the living area of Office 4A, as well as for the basin and floor drain at the Flat Roof.
28. On 11 May 2015, the Joint Office's officer visited Office 3A for CWT result monitoring, suspicious colour in the ceiling was observed. A bag of plaster was collected for analysis ("the sample"). The MC readings of the affected ceiling were found to be above 35%. 14 
29. According to an analytical report prepared by the Government Laboratory dated 29 May 2015, the test result of the sample showed positive detection of colour water in the sample 15 . According to the Joint Office, this indicated water seepage through the drain pipe of the basin and its connected waste pipe at the Flat Roof.
30. On 15 June 2015, the Joint Office sent a letter notifying the plaintiff of the CWT result 16 . On the same day, they sent another letter to the defendant, saying that according to their officer's investigation and test result, the drain pipe of the basin and its connected waste pipe at the Flat Roof ("the drainage pipe") were damaged thereby causing water seepage and urged the defendant to take remedial action. In the said letter, they also informed her of their intended action to issue nuisance notice in relation to such water seepage. 17 
31. On 30 June 2015, the defendant's expert, Mr Andrew Kau of Bright Solution Consulting Limited ("Mr Kau") also attended Flat 4A to conduct visual inspection and took photos there. 18 
32. On 9 July 2015, the Director of Food and Environmental Hygiene issued another nuisance notice to the defendant directing her to abate the nuisance in relation to the water seepage through the drainage pipe as connected with the basin at the Flat Roof to the ceiling of Office 3A ("the 2nd nuisance notice"). 19 
33. On 11 and 13 July 2015, Mr Andi Hau of HKBI (the plaintiff's expert) and Mr Kau (the defendant's expert) attended Office 3A and the Flat Roof to conduct tests and inspection. In particular, a ponding test at the Flat Roof was conducted on the first day ("the 3rd ponding test") 20 . They subsequently prepared a joint expert report dated 6 October 2015 setting out their findings and their respective opinions on the various possible sources of the water seepage 21 ("the joint expert report"). Among other documents, a copy of the annotated plan of the affected areas of Office 3A tested and measured by the experts, and the floor plan of Flat 4A are annexed to the joint expert report. For ease of reference, these two plans are also annexed to this judgment as "  Annexure 1  " and "  Annexure 2  " respectively. In the annotated floor plan of Office 3A, the ceiling is divided by the experts into 3 different zones: Zone A (with affected areas A1-A5), Zone B (with affected areas B1-B4) and Zone C (with affected areas C1-C6), and such defined areas of the ceiling would also be referred to as "Zone A", "Zone B" and "Zone C" respectively in this judgment below.
34. On 18 September 2015, Flat 4A was visited for compliance check of the 2nd nuisance notice. On that day, it was found that the basin at the Flat Roof had been removed. The Joint Office also found the 2nd nuisance notice being complied with. They contacted Mr Wong and informed him of their findings. It is however recorded in the Joint Office's letter dated 15 December 2015 that Mr Wong revealed that seepage occurred in rainy days, and he would contact the Joint Office for visit after rainy days. 22 
35. On 7 October 2015, the Joint Office's officer visited Office 3A with arrangement by Mr Wong and the MC readings of the affected ceiling was found to be above 35%. 23 
36. On 12 October 2015, the Joint Office sent two letters to the plaintiff and the defendant respectively informing them that the case will be considered for proceeding to Stage III professional investigation owing to the persistence of water seepage despite the removal of the basin at the Flat Roof. 24 
37. On 5 January 2016, the Joint Office sent a letter to the defendant indicating, among other things, that despite the various non-intrusive tests conducted at Flat 4A, they could not effectively confirm the source of seepage originated from Flat 4A, and they would suspend the investigation at this stage. 25 
38. The matters set out in paras 13, 15, 17 to 32, and 34 to 37 above are elicited from a chronology of events set out in Joint Office's letter to the plaintiffs' solicitors dated 15 December 2015 and from the Joint Office's correspondences with the parties. These matters were undisputed at trial, and sourced from an independent third party with first hand knowledge of the subject matters described therein corroborated by contemporaneous documents, and the survey reports prepared by the Joint Office's appointed consultants. This court is satisfied with their veracity as properly reflecting the factual background of this case. 26 As to the remaining parts of the above background, they are also largely undisputed between the parties. I am satisfied that the matters described in paras 7 to 37 above can form the background facts of this case.
 Issues on source of seepage
 39. To approach this question, this court bears in mind that there is no legal presumption that water seepage would necessarily come from the flat above. The burden of proof rests on the plaintiff to show the source of water came from the defendant's premises. See: Cheung Sau Ling v Cheung Lai Shing CACV 268 of 1998 
, 9 April 1999, para 19; Leung Yung Chun & Another v Chan Wing Sang & Others [2000] 1 HKLRD 456 
, at pp 461I-J. 