Tort - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below - source of seepage - whether defendant under duty to stop seepage or investigate cause thereof - whether defendant knew or by taking reasonable steps ought to have known about source of seepage in her premises 1. This was a suspected water seepage case involving two units respectively owned by the plaintiff and the defendant in a multi-storey building known as Elegant Court, Nos 14 and 14A Shan Kwong Road, Hong Kong ("the Building").
2. The action was brought by Siu Kwok On Vincent ("Siu") as the lawful attorney for and on behalf of the plaintiff.
3. By this action, the plaintiff claimed against the defendant for water seepage from the defendant's premises to the plaintiff's premises which constituted a nuisance caused or permitted by the defendant since about May 2011. Further or alternatively, it was the plaintiff's case that the water seepage was caused by the willful neglect and/or negligence of the defendant, her servant or agent, in failing to identify the leaking pipes at the defendant's premises and/or failing to take any or any sufficient steps to stop the water leakage.
4. As a result, it was claimed that the plaintiff had suffered loss of rental between 15 January and 13 March 2012 in the sum of $45,206.90, and that he has also incurred expenses to carry out remedial works to repair and/or redecorate his premises at the costs of $31,300.
5. The defendant denied any responsibility for the alleged water seepage whereby the plaintiff was put to strict proof the existence and the cause thereof. It was contended by the defendant that at all material times she had fully co-operated with the management company of the Building, Wellpoint Property Management Limited ("the Management Company"), to facilitate the inspection of her premises and the carrying out of the rectification works. Further or alternatively, the defendant alleged that the water seepage had been caused by the defective communal drainage pipe which formed part of the common parts of the Building. As such, it should be the duty of the Incorporated Owners ("the Incorporated Owners) of the Building, and not that of the defendant, to repair the same in accordance with the Deed of Mutual Covenant and Grant ("the DMC").
6. Further, while the Incorporated Owners was joined as the third party in this action, it did not take part in the main action between the plaintiff and the defendant, and was not present throughout the present hearing 1 . Accordingly, as far as the present hearing was concerned, it was only the trial between the defendant and the plaintiff without the need to consider the question of contributions by the Incorporated Owners.
 The relevant factual background
 7. The following facts were largely not disputed by the parties:- 
 (a) The plaintiff's premises was situated immediately underneath the defendant's premises;
 (b) The layouts of the two premises were the same in that they both had a balcony outside the toilet. At the balcony of each premises, there was a communal drainage pipe running from the ceiling to the floor and extending vertically throughout the entire building, and a closestool drain pipe;
 (c) The communal drainage pipe and the closestool drain pipe inside the defendant's premises were enclosed by wooden boards. At the bottom of the wooden boards, there was a movable panel covering an inspection hole ("  生口位  ") with the dimension of 1 feet x 1 feet. After removal of the covering panel, one could look through the inspection hole and see the pipes inside;
 (d) Both premises were vacant at the material times;
 (e) The plaintiff's premises has been unoccupied since its acquisition by the plaintiff on 23 November 2010 2 .
 (f) As for the defendant's premises, it has been left vacant since the defendant moved out on 20 January 2011. Thereafter, the defendant has left the key to her premises with the caretaker of the Building for its viewing by prospective buyers or tenants 3 ;
 (g) In about May 2011, Siu got the defendant's key from the caretaker. He together with his decoration contractors went to the defendant's premises for inspection regarding the water seepage problem. Being unaware of the inspection hole on the wooden boards, they were unable to inspect the pipes inside and did not identify any source of leakage within the defendant's premises;
 (h) By a letter dated 10 August 2011, Siu made a complaint to the Management Company about the water seepage from the defendant's premises. Two days later, the Management Company upon the instruction of its property management manager, Lam Yiu Hang ("Lam"), sent a letter dated 12 August 2011 to the defendant informing her about Siu's complaint and demanding her to rectify the water seepage problem within 14 days;
 (i) In about September 2011, Siu together with an interior decoration company, Basic Construction Engineering Co Limited ("BCE"), had the second inspection of the defendant's premises 4 . Again, they did not notice the inspection hole on the wooden boards and were unable to inspect the pipes inside. No source of leakage within the defendant's premises was found on this occasion;
 (j) At the instruction of Siu, in about September 2011, BCE prepared a quotation for the remedial works in the defendant's premises to rectify the water seepage problem and Winnie Ng ("Ng"), an estate agent, was asked by Siu to deliver it to the letter box of the defendant's premises;
 (k) Further, in about November 2011, Siu contacted the Joint Office ("the Joint Office") of the Buildings Department and Food & Environmental Hygiene Department ("FEHD"), and complained about the water seepage from the defendant's premises;
 (l) On 2 December 2011, a site inspection of the plaintiff's premises was conducted by the Buildings Department whereby algae were reported to be found along the communal drainage pipe in it 5 ;
 (m) Pursuant to the prior appointment with the defendant, on 6 December 2011, Yan Kam Choi ("Yan"), a health inspector of the Joint Office, visited the defendant's premises and conducted colour water tests to the drainage outlets in its toilet;
 (n) According to a letter dated 21 May 2014 from the Joint Office to the defendant's solicitors, Messrs Gary K W Tam & Co, Yan attended the plaintiff's premises on 8 December 2011 as a matter of follow-up of the aforesaid colour water tests. During his inspection, Yan noticed that there was some colour dyes at the joints of the communal drainage pipe in the plaintiff's premises. He then collected a sample of the emulsion paint from the surface of the communal drainage pipe and a sample of the plaster from the ceiling nearby. Both samples were later sent to the government laboratory for analysis. Reportedly, the colour water tests of the plaster sample had a negative result (see the analytical reports by the Government Laboratory respectively dated 23 and 29 December 2011) whereas the sample of the emulsion paint had a positive result under test. These test results were said to be indicative that the communal drainage pipe in the plaintiff's premises was defective;
 (o) Further, by a letter dated 15 December 2011, the Joint Office advised Siu that the communal drainage pipe in the plaintiff's premises was found to have signs of damage during its inspection on 8 December 2011 6 ;
 (p) Under the arrangement of the Management Company, in about December 2011, Chan Kam Yeung ("CKY") of Kam Yeung Kee Engineering (  錦洋記工程  ) attended both premises for inspection;
 (q) Based on his visual observations, CKY came to an initial assessment that the interchange joint  （三叉口駁位）  in the communal drainage pipe was broken and this caused the water seepage suffered by the plaintiff's premises;
 (r) The interchange joint was a socket-like device in the shape of a horizontal "T" with three openings, one horizontal and two vertical, at its ends. The horizontal opening was connected to the closetool drain pipe in the defendant's premises whereas the two vertical openings were respectively connected to the communal drainage pipe in the defendant's premises and that in the plaintiff's premises. As such, the interchange joint served as the common spot of all the pipes connected to it 7 ;
 (s) According to CKY, the leakage (i.e. broken) point of the interchange joint was embedded in the floor slab between the plaintiff's and the defendant's respective premises so that a through-hole had to be created on the floor slab in order to carry out the rectification works. Further, while there was nothing wrong about the closestool drain pipe in the defendant's premises, a part of it as well as the wooden boards was required to be cut off or dismantled to facilitate the replacement of the defective interchange joint. Besides, a very small portion of the communal drainage pipe respectively above and below the interchange joint would need to be cut off to enable the reconnection of the new interchange joint. All such rectification works had to be carried out in the defendant's premises;
 (t) Shortly after his inspection, CKY prepared a quotation for the remedial works to rectify the water seepage. However, he made a mistake in his quotation that the works of dismantling the wooden boards and cutting off of the closestool drain pipe should be performed in the plaintiff's premises 8 . Therefore, in about early January 2012, he made a second visit of the two premises for checking about the mistake and revised his quotation accordingly;
 (u) It was eventually accepted between the Incorporated Owners and the defendant that the Incorporated Owners should be responsible for the costs of replacing the interchange joint whereas the defendant should be responsible for the costs of dismantling the woodened boards and the cutting off (and reconnection) of the closestool drain pipe in her premises;
 (v) The Incorporated Owners however wanted to receive further quotations from contractors other than CKY. Thus, it was not until 9 February 2012 when the members of the Incorporated Owners convened a meeting and resolved to engage CKY to perform the rectification works;
 (w) Between 15 and 18 February 2012, CKY carried out the rectification works whereby he replaced the interchange joint which he confirmed to have been damaged after he dug into the floor slab. All the rectification works were performed in the defendant's premises except that some post-repair works such as plastering, painting and cleaning works were done in the plaintiff's premises;
 (x) Thereafter, there has been no more water seepage suffered by the plaintiff's premises;
 (y) Subsequently, pursuant to the said arrangement reached between the Incorporated Owners and the defendant, they duly paid their respective share of the costs for the rectification works done by CKY.
 