Tort - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below - ascertainment of source of seepage
Land law - building management - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below - whether in breach of deed of mutual covenant
Damages - assessment - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below 1. This is a water leakage case involving two flats one directly above the other in a multi-storey residential building situated at 233 Shau Kei Wan Road, Hong Kong ("the Building").
 Introduction
 2. The plaintiff ("P") is the registered owner of the flat on the 7th floor of the Building ("the 7/F Flat").
3. The defendant ("D") is the registered owner of the flat on the 8th floor ("the 8/F Flat"), a top floor flat, and the roof ("the Roof") of the Building.
4. It is common ground that both the 7/F Flat and the 8/F Flat are subject to a Deed of Mutual Covenant registered in the Land Registry by Memorial No 514058 ("the DMC").
5. The Building is almost 50 years old.
6. The area of each of the 7/F Flat and the 8/F Flat is about 500 square feet. Both flats are subdivided into 3 flats, each with separate bathroom and kitchen facilities, for letting.
7. The 3 rooms in the 7/F Flat are of different sizes. The area of the small room is about 70 square feet.
8. It is P's case that since October 2010, water has been seeping from the 8/F Flat into the small room in the 7/F Flat ("the Damaged Room"). As a result, the tenant moved out on 27 February 2011. The Damaged Room was rendered uninhabitable ever since, and P has suffered loss of rental income. Despite numerous requests and negotiations between P and D, the water leakage problems were not remedied and have continued.
9. It is not disputed that there have been continuous water seepage problems in the Damaged Room. The dilapidated conditions of the Damaged Room are shown in the evidence adduced of various photographs of the Damaged Room taken in different periods and most recently on 4 January 2016.
10. P claims in this action against D:- 
 (i) An order for D to rectify the water seepage problems in the 8/F Flat at its own cost;
 (ii) Cost of repair of the Damaged Room; and
 (iii) Loss of rental income from March 2011 to the date of judgment.
 
11. D argues that the water seepage into the Damaged Room was from other sources not originated from the 8/F Flat, but through the Damaged Room windows and the external walls.
12. Whilst denying liability, D agrees to pay a reasonable compensation for the cost of repair works to the 7/F Flat at a sum not exceeding $3,000, and argues that P is not entitled to any other claims or reliefs sought.
13. The central issue of this case is the cause of the water seepage, ie whether the seepage had come from the 8/F Flat. If so, whether there was any breach by D of the DMC or duty under the tort of nuisance and negligence as claimed. Where liability against D is established, what damages and/or other reliefs it should be held liable. 