Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing grievous bodily harm - private car driven by defendant jumped red light and entered road junction at high speed, causing collisions with two taxis, resulting in injuries to drivers of both taxis, one passenger on board of one of taxis, and defendant's wife on board of private car 2. The accident location was at the traffic light-controlled junction of Jordan Road and D1A(N) Road, Tsim Sha Tsui. The material section of D1A(N) is a three-lane one-way carriageway while Jordan Road is a five-lane two-way carriageway with temporary barriers between the three-lane westbound and two-lane eastbound directions.
3. The speed limit was 50 km per hour. At the material time, the traffic volume was normal with good visibility, being well-lit by streetlamps. The weather was fine. The road surface was dry and in good repair.
4. Vehicle 1 (V1) was a taxi RA 2586 driven by PW1. Vehicle 2 (V2) was a taxi KN 2535 driven by PW2 carrying two passengers, including PW3, Sharabany Shimshon aged 60. Vehicle 3 (V3) was a private vehicle RA 7851 driven by PW4. Vehicle 4 (V4) was a KMB bus driven by PW5. Vehicle 5 (V5) was a private vehicle TR 9149 driven by the defendant. His wife, IP2 (injured person No. 2) aged 32 and their baby girl aged 7 months were on board.
5. At around 8:10 pm on 4 June 2016, V1 and V2 were stopped at the traffic light controlling D1A(N) Road on the first left lane and second left lane respectively. V3 was the second vehicle on the right lane of D1A(N) Road.
6. The traffic lights on D1A(N) Road turned green. V1 to V3 began to move forward when V5, which was travelling on the right lane of westbound Jordan Road, jumped the red light of westbound Jordan Road and travelled into the junction of Jordan Road and D1A(N) Road at high speed. The front of V1 then hit the right side of V5. V5 did not stop after the collision with V1, kept moving forward, and the front of V5 rammed into the left side of V2, which caused V2 to overturn.
7. The defendant was arrested and cautioned. Under caution, he remained silent.
8. Screen breath test was conducted with the defendant with zero reading. As clarified with Mr Chui, counsel for the prosecution, the motor vehicle examination of all vehicles showed no mechanic defects.
9. Upon physical examination, the prosecution witnesses were found to have the following injuries as a result of the accident:- 
 (a) PW1 had neck and back tenderness.
 (b) PW2 had abrasion over scalp and right elbow.
 (c) PW3 had a superficial laceration on his right cheek, fractured fifth left rib, pneumothorax on his left lungs and fractured S3 spinous process. He received suturing for his laceration of right cheek and was admitted to cardio-thoracic surgery for drain insertion for his pneumothorax. He was finally discharged on 18 June 2016, two weeks after the accident. I was informed that PW3, an Israeli, had left Hong Kong.
 (d) IP2 had left arm bruising and lip laceration.
 
10. Upon questioning, Mr Chui informed the court that IP1 did not give consent to release his medical report to the police. 