Criminal sentencing - dangerous drugs - trafficking - mitigating factors - assistance to authorities - subsequent to sentencing, defendant fulfilled her promise to testify for prosecution which led to conviction of another person for same offence - further discount given to sentence accordingly 4. The Summary of Facts, which was admitted by the applicant and used for the purposes of her sentencing, revealed that on 31 August 2014 at Hong Kong International Airport the applicant approached the check-in counter for a flight to Sydney, Australia. She was intercepted by police officers who, on searching a compartment of her backpack, discovered two packets of suspected dangerous drugs. These suspected dangerous drugs were subsequently confirmed to be the quantity of Ice that is the subject of the charge.
5. When the applicant was arrested for trafficking in a dangerous drug she said under caution: "I carry dangerous drugs to Australia for a friend only because I owe someone money."
6. In a video record of interview the applicant later admitted: 
 (a) In 2013 she became acquainted with a man by the name of "Chan". This person offered her a job of trafficking in drugs but she refused him at that time.
 (b) In mid-August 2014 Chan approached the applicant again and offered her HK$30,000 to traffic drugs from Hong Kong to Australia. As the applicant was in need of money she accepted the offer.
 (c) After further conversations with Chan the applicant arranged to take a flight to Sydney, Australia on 31 August 2014 and return on 5 September.
 (d) On 22 August 2014 the applicant met up with two men named Kelvin and Chong. Chong provided her with HK$12,200 to purchase an air ticket and pay for her accommodation.
 (e) On 30 August 2014 the applicant met up with Kelvin and Chan in the Mainland. Chong later appeared and gave the applicant a backpack which the applicant sensed contained dangerous drugs. The applicant was instructed to bring it back to Hong Kong and then transport it to Australia. She was told someone would contact her to collect the drugs after she arrived in Sydney.
 (f) The applicant then returned to Hong Kong with Chan and Kelvin. She claimed she had not yet received any reward for her trafficking.
 
7. In August 2014 the estimated retail value of the seized dangerous drugs was HK$574,674. 8. The applicant was 25 years of age at the time of sentence, having been born in December 1990. She had completed Form Five education and was single and unemployed at the time of her arrest. She had no criminal record.
9. Her counsel informed the court that the applicant's mother was a single mother who brought up the applicant without any assistance. The mother and daughter relationship was not a happy one and so, at around 18 years of age, the applicant started living with her aunt, her aunt's husband and her cousins. Living with her aunt and cousins was a happy family environment. However, the aunt was living on social welfare benefits and the family was suffering financially. The aunt's husband was indebted to others and the aunt used the part of the money she received from social welfare to pay off a debt collector.
10. The applicant was aware that her younger cousins, who were all attending school, would have insufficient money to pay for their text books. Thus, when she was approached to traffic in drugs and was offered a reward of about HK$30,000 she thought she would be able to use this money to meet the school fees and other expenses of her cousins. It was for these reasons that she eventually agreed to participate in drug trafficking. She also thought that if there was any spare money left over then her aunt would be able to pay the debt collector.
11. Since being remanded in custody the applicant had shown remorse and had made an offer to assist the police. She had also started a long distance learning course in marketing management offered by the Chinese University. All of this demonstrated, so her counsel submitted, that the applicant was determined to turn over a new leaf. 