Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - causing death by dangerous     driving 3. In the small hours (4:25a.m.) of 28 June 2016, the defendant was driving an empty taxi along the Tsing Kwai highway towards Kowloon. The section of the highway where the accident occurred is a 4-lane straight stretch of road and the speed limit is 80 Kmh. The road surface was slightly wet because of the rain earlier on.
4. There was certain road work going on in the 2nd lane, a multi-sequence signaller stopped on the same lane with light signals from a gantry giving warnings to incoming cars. At the time of the accident, the road work was just finished and the workers were packing up to leave; they were loading traffic cones onto the signaller.
5. A truck was following behind the defendant's taxi and there were no other vehicles in the vicinity. The truck driver, Mr Mak, had witnessed the whole accident. The taxi was travelling along the 3rd lane, when it came near the stationary signaller which was on the 2nd lane; all of a sudden, the taxi swerved to the left hitting the 3 workers, sending at least two of them flying, and then the taxi bounced off to the other direction hitting the central divider, and came to a halt about 80 metres in front.
6. One worker died instantly, another later in the hospital and the third 2 days later. At least one worker was found lying on the 3rd lane about 30 metres away from the point of impact. Both vehicles were damaged but the taxi's damage was a lot more serious.
7. CCTV at the scene captured the defendant walking to the hard shoulder in a suspicious manner after the accident; later police went to the same spot to have a look and discovered the flu medications dumped by the defendant - they were medicine bags bearing the name of the defendant with drugs in it.
8. It turned out that the defendant had visited a doctor, Dr Mak, with a flu complaint the day before and was given some medicine for treatment. Among the medications, there are two types of pill which could cause drowsiness - they are Dimetapp and Celestamine. In fact, the defendant's blood was sent for examination after the accident and was found to contain the ingredients of the two above-mentioned drugs.
9. Dr Mak confirmed the defendant's consultation. Knowing the defendant a taxi driver by profession, the doctor reminded him of the drowsy effect of the medicine he prescribed for him, and so did the clinic assistant. The defendant was specifically told not to drive or operate any machines after taking the medications. dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving 