Criminal law and procedure - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing death - appeal against conviction - dismissed  5. The charge arose out of an accident which took place at around 7:48 am on 9 June 2015 at the entrance/exit area of The Waterfront car park at No. 1 Austin Road West, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon. This car park is reached by turning off Jordan Road into Nga Cheung Road and from there turning left into an unnamed two lane road which travels in an inverted U shape around Kowloon Station before joining up again with Nga Cheung Road. The appellant was driving in the left hand lane around the inverted U to reach the International Commerce Centre (ICC) car park on the far side. The Waterfront car park is at the top of the inverted U. A simplified diagrammatic depiction of the scene is as follows: 
[Editor's note: To view the image, please refer to the PDF at the top]
6. The length of the unnamed road from Nga Cheung Road to the corner before The Waterfront car park is 200 metres. The appellant drove down this stretch of road and lost control of his car at the right hand corner that is at the end of this stretch of road. After hitting the curb of the corner with the front nearside wheel his car continued into the entrance/exit area of The Waterfront car park where it struck a security guard who died from his injuries.
7. The unnamed road, because it is underneath a building, is a straight tunnel-like one-way road, consisting of 2 lanes with a speed limit of 30 km/hour. It has no pavements and is not open to pedestrians. Vehicles may supplement the ambient lighting with their own headlights and this is what the appellant did. The corners of the inverted U are 90 degree corners. The unnamed road has a bitumen surface but the entry to the car park has a varnished concrete surface. The former surface provides good grip for a motor vehicle's tyres but the latter surface does not.
8. It was not disputed that the appellant drove his Ferrari 454 Spider, registration number TA 4600, at an excessive speed, in terms of the speed limit, along the first 200 metre straight stretch of this unnamed road. Dr Wong Koon Hung, a prosecution witness with expertise in accident reconstruction, used CCTV footage from a camera located at Exit 2 of the Kowloon Station car park to calculate the appellant's speeds between certain points on this road. These points he marked A-D. The relevant distance between these points and the speed at which the appellant's Ferrari was travelling between them were as follows: 
 (a) between Point A and Point B: 13.56 metres at 97 km/hour ± 10 km/hour;
 (b) between Point C and Point D: 20.29 metres at 76 km/hour ± 8 km/hour. 1 
 This meant that between Points B and C there was a deceleration of the appellant's Ferrari of 20 km/hour. 2 
9. At Point D, the Ferrari hit the curb and then crashed through The Waterfront car park's entrance/exit. A yaw mark was visible on the unnamed road. It was 2.3 metres long leading from the nearside of the left lane towards the curb just before the car park entrance/exit. It was created by the appellant's car drifting sideways across the road. There was also a 9.1 metres long skid mark, after the yaw mark, which was created by the front nearside wheel of the appellant's car locking after suffering damage from the collision with the curb. This skid mark could be seen on both the surface of the road and the varnished concrete surface at the entrance of the car park. There was a third skid mark of three metres in length, which appears on the varnished concrete surface of the car park 3 , that was created by the front offside wheel of the appellant's car. This mark bore all the characteristics of a mark created by the operation of the cars anti-brake lock system ("the ABS mark").
10. The accident was depicted by various CCTV cameras installed around the unnamed road and in The Waterfront car park. The footage from these cameras was produced by way of admitted facts. The footage from a camera located at Exit 2 of Kowloon Station car park showed the appellant's car driving past it along the stretch of unnamed road prior to the corner at the end of that road where the accident happened. This footage enabled a defence expert to express the opinion, which the judge accepted, that for the very short period of time that the appellant's car was captured by this CCTV camera, the brake lights of the Ferrari were illuminated.
11. There was, unfortunately, no CCTV footage looking down the stretch of unnamed road before the corner.
12. The other CCTV footage was sourced from a number of cameras located in and around the entrance/exit area of The Waterfront car park. There were two different sets of CCTV footage with one set labelled "Channel 47" and the other set labelled "Channel 275". Each set contained the CCTV footage of four differently located cameras. Still images from the cameras of these two channels were printed out as photographs and exhibited. dangerous driving dangerous driving 