Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing death - driving vehicle with alcohol concentration in breath exceeding prescribed limit - vehicle driven by defendant, whose breath alcohol content was 65ug in 100 ml of breath, hit and killed 76-year-old male pushing trolley - repeat offender of driving under influence of alcohol 1. The defendant has pleaded guilty to Charge 1, causing death by dangerous driving, and Charge 2, driving a motor vehicle with alcohol concentration in his breath exceeding the prescribed legal limit.
2. The defendant was the driver of a private vehicle, TH-5919. On 14 May 2016 at about 5.40 in the morning, when this accident happened, he was driving along Canton Road outside Yau Ma Tei Police Station, which is a one-way northbound carriageway consisting of three lanes. Where the accident happened is where the right lane merges with the middle lane to make it a two-lane carriageway. This accident did not happen on a pedestrian crossing, the nearest one being some 18 metres from the accident spot.
3. At about 5.40 am, two police officers who were on foot patrol saw the defendant's vehicle stopped between the right and the middle lane. They saw oranges scattered all over the road. They saw the defendant in front of his own vehicle. When the defendant saw the police officers, he ran towards them. The defendant told the police that he had just hit a person, and asked them to call for an ambulance.
4. Subsequently, he told the police that he was driving along Canton Road when he saw the deceased pushing a trolley towards his vehicle, so he honked his horn. The victim did not stop, and the trolley collided with the defendant's vehicle.
5. At the time, the sky was dull, but this stretch of road was well lit with street lights.
6. The speed on that stretch of road was 50 kilometres per hour, and at that time of the morning, there was not much traffic. That stretch of road was straight for 57 metres from the nearest junction to the accident location.
7. The police officers saw a male, the deceased, who was 76 years old, lying underneath a pile of oranges in front of the defendant's vehicle. He was not breathing, and bleeding from his mouth. The front of the vehicle was severely damaged. The hood was completely buckled inwards.
8. The victim was rushed to hospital, but unfortunately declared dead within the hour. He died of multiple injuries.
9. The defendant was breathalysed by the police and found to be over the legal limit. His breath alcohol content was found to be 65ug in 100 millilitres of breath, when the legal limit is 22ug in 100 millilitres of breath. The defendant was well over the legal limit.
10. I have seen photographs of the location of the accident as well as the damage to the front of the defendant's vehicle. The impact of the vehicle and the deceased and his trolley must have been very significant.
11. The defendant is not a man with a clear record. He has five previous convictions, with the last being in 2013. This is the significant conviction, because he was convicted of drink driving in Kowloon City Magistracy. He was convicted and sentenced to 6 weeks' imprisonment suspended for 18 months, as well as disqualified from driving for 2 years. He was given a chance of a suspended sentence, yet this is his second drink driving conviction today. The defendant has no other significant traffic convictions.
12. I have heard mitigation in full today. Ms Yang has said all she can say on the defendant's behalf. The defendant's best mitigation is his plea of guilty.
13. The defendant is 42 years old, a family man, as well as the sole proprietor of a small restaurant, which has, since the accident, closed down. He has two sons and a supportive wife who is in court today. The defendant is the sole breadwinner of the family. I have had many letters from the defendant's wife, his eldest son, as well as friends and customers. All say the defendant is a responsible and filial son, husband and father. He is full of remorse and will never drive again. He knows he must take responsibility for his poor judgment. The authors of the letters ask for leniency on his behalf.
14. By way of explanation, the night before the accident, he was in his barbecue restaurant. Some of his customers asked him to drink with them. He felt he could not refuse them. What he should have then done was leave his car behind, but he chose to take the risk and drive it home after drinking. It goes without saying that this is all the more serious because he has a previous recent conviction for drinking and driving. 