Criminal law and procedure - road traffic offences - dangerous driving - failing to stop after accident whereby damage caused - failing to report accident to police - whether charges made out on evidence  *242
 D pleaded guilty to careless driving (Charge 1) and was convicted of dangerous driving (Charge 2), failing to stop after an accident whereby damage was caused (Charge 3) and failing to report the accident to the police (Charge 4). D's car was behind PW1's car, which had stopped under the boom barrier of a car park exit before a give way sign and traffic lights. D's car allegedly bumped into the rear of PW1's car. PW1 swore loudly at D, who did not say much. PW1's passenger, PW2, also alighted from the car and filmed the incident on her mobile telephone. PW1 then called the police. D examined both vehicles and then removed two traffic cones placed behind his car by a car park employee to prevent vehicles from queueing up behind them. PW2 replaced one of the traffic cones and stepped onto the pavement when D, looking backwards, reversed his car a little so he could turn and leave from another exit. The Magistrate found that CCTV footage contradicted D's evidence that he believed no collision or damage had occurred; and that D stopped, waited about four minutes and then drove away without exchanging particulars with PW1 and reporting the accident to the police.
   *243
 Held , allowing the appeal by quashing the convictions on Charges 2-4, that:
 (1) The film footages did not support a conviction on Charge 2, even on PW2's evidence. D, looking behind him, slowly reversed a short distance in order to make a right-hand turn, while PW2 was moving away from the carriageway to the pedestrian pavement. In these circumstances, D's driving was not dangerous. (See paras.8, 12, 20.)
 (2) Section 56 of the Road Traffic Ordinance (Cap.374) requires the drivers of vehicles involved in a collision where damage or personal injuries had resulted to exchange particulars and if a party failed to provide any or sufficient particulars, then there was a failure "to stop" even though the vehicle had stopped ( HKSAR v McKeever  (unrep., HCMA 381/2011, [2011] HKEC 1107) applied). (See para.14.)
 (3) Charges 3 and 4 had not been proven beyond a reasonable doubt. The evidence as to the damage to PW1's car was uncertain and based on his own evidence. At its very highest, it was a very slight bump of vehicles possibly resulting in a single minor scratch. PW1 was abusive and aggressive from the outset. He made no effort to comply with s.56 of the Ordinance by seeking or providing the necessary personal particulars, but called the police instead. D remained passive throughout, believing his car had not touched PW1's car, waited a few minutes then left. While he was wrong to have done so, he did not know the police had been called. (See paras.8, 15-20.)
 