Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - careless driving - defendant, driving vehicle at 1.6 times speed limit, saw coliision between two other vehicles in front but failed to stop in time, hitting one of those vehicles - whether defendant caused or contributed to deaths of drivers of those two vehicles - whether immediate custodial sentence, to be suspended, warranted in circumstances - appropriate disqualification period 3. This case arose out of a road traffic accident that happened at around 4:30 a.m. on 28 September 2014 in Shek O Road. In this accident, 3 consecutive collisions involving a total of 4 vehicles took place, and two persons died as a result.
4. The accident location was a section of Shek O Road near Lamppost 33805 which was a two-way two-lane carriageway with the northbound lane heading towards the direction of Chai Wan and the southbound lane heading towards the direction of Shek O. The two lanes were divided by a continuous white line with a broken white line which allowed vehicles on the southbound lane to cross the centre line into the northbound lane to overtake but not the other way round. There were hill slopes on both sides of the road. On approaching the accident scene from the north along the southbound lane, traffic would first pass a slight bend before reaching crest, and then there was a down-slope straight stretch of the road where the accident took place. On the other hand, traffic along the northbound lane would first reach a slight right bend and then an up-slope straight stretch of the road where the accident occurred.
5. The speed limit of the accident location was 50 km per hour. At the time of the accident, the weather was fine. The road surface was dry. The traffic condition was light. Street light was on and visibility was good.
6. Prior to the occurrence of the accident, private car JZ55 (V1) and private car GC6883 (V3) were travelling along the southbound lane in this sequence towards the accident location. V1 was driven by Mr. Cheuk with no passenger on board. V3 was driven by the defendant with one passenger. All of them were friends.
7. On the opposite lane, private car SX3844, private car SU4294 (V2) and private car SN1650 (V4) were travelling northbound in this sequence towards the accident location. Private car SX3844 was driven by Mr. Yue (PW1). V2 was driven by Mr. Huang with a passenger Mr. Li (PW2) sitting in the front passenger seat. V4 was driven by Mr. Yau with a front-seat passenger Mr. Cheung (PW3). All of them were friends.
8. Immediately before the accident, PW1 who was driving his car on the northbound lane saw V1 approaching along the opposite lane at a high speed which PW1 estimated to be more than 80 km per hour. He also saw V3 following V1 at about 4 vehicles' space behind and travelling also at a speed estimated to be more than 80 km per hour. After PW1's car had passed V1 and V3, PW1 saw from his rearview mirror that V1 was skidding sideway and trespassing into the northbound lane. At this moment, V2 was travelling along the northbound lane at a speed of about 50 to 60 km per hour (according to the estimate of PW2). The offside fronts of V1 and V2 then collided heavily with one another ("the 1st collision"). The 1st collision snapped off the engine compartment of V1 from its passenger compartment and jerked open the driver door of V1. V1's driver (Mr. Cheuk) was buckled up and remained on the driver seat of V1. V2's driver (Mr. Huang) was also trapped in the driver seat of V2.
9. At this juncture, V4 which was following V2 could not stop in time and hit the passenger compartment of V1 slightly across the centre dividing line ("the 2nd collision"). V4 was then pushed backward to the kerb of the northbound lane and spun clockwise, and finally stopped with its head against the traffic direction of the northbound lane. In the course of the 2nd collision, the offside bottom corner of the front windscreen of V4 came into contact with the head of the driver of V1 (Mr. Cheuk).
10. Immediately after the 2nd collision, V3 came from behind at a high speed with its rear skidding sideway. The nearside front fender of V3 came into contact with the head of V1's driver (Mr. Cheuk) and bent the driver door of V1 forward, while its offside collided with V4 (collectively "the 3rd collision"). V3 finally came to a complete halt about 32 metres ahead of the damaged V1.
11. The passenger compartment of V1 was then on fire. At that time, V1's driver was still inside the compartment. After the fire was put out by firemen, it was found that the entire body of V1's driver was burned and he had no trace of life.
12. V2's driver (Mr. Huang) was sent to Eastern Hospital but was certified dead at 5:48 a.m. on the same day.
13. The police officer who first arrived at the scene noticed a large blood-like splash on the nearside front of V3. He did not notice any obvious skid marks as the floor was wet with water after the rescuing operation. Bloodstain samples were taken from the tank cover, nearside front fender, offside front door and bonnet of V3 for DNA examination. Samples of human tissues were also found and taken from the bonnet of V4 for DNA examination. The DNA examinations confirmed that the blood and human tissues were originated from the driver of V1 (Mr. Cheuk).
14. The defendant and the driver of V4 were found not to have consumed any alcohol prior to the accident in screening breath tests.
15. Vehicle examination confirmed that V1 to V4 were free from mechanical defects before the accident.
16. Dr. Lai Sai-chak conducted an autopsy on both deceased drivers. He found the direct cause of death of V1's driver (Mr. Cheuk) was "head injury" with remarks "severe head trauma with gaping laceration on forehead exposing cranial cavity, resulting in almost immediate death. Burns were probably post-mortem". Dr. Lai found the direct cause of the death of V2's driver (Mr. Huang) was "haemothorax" and the intervening antecedent cause was "traumatic rupture of right atrium of heart" with remarks "frontal impact with sudden compression of the chest, causing rupture of heart".
17. Dr. Cheng Yuk-ki attended the accident scene at 7:45 a.m. on 28 September 2014 to collect relevant physical evidence to determine the cause of the accident. He conducted an accident reconstruction at 10:05 p.m. on 2 December 2014 to determine the sight distance of a driver driving along the southbound lane towards a stationary vehicle at the accident locus. He observed that a vehicle travelling at 50 km per hour along the southbound lane could see a dark vehicle (with no lights lit) stationing at the final position of V1 from a distance of 58 metres when the headlamps of the travelling vehicle were on, and 57 metres when the headlamps were off.
18. The reconstruction indicated that if the driver of V3 (i.e. the defendant) had kept a safe distance from V1 and driven at a speed within the speed limit imposed on the accident location, he would have been able to stop V3 without hitting objects at the accident location if he applied the emergency brake immediately after he had seen the collision between V1 and V2. The fact that V3 stopped about 32 metres ahead of the final position of V1 indicated that the defendant had probably driven V3 at a speed above the speed limit. 