Criminal sentencing - theft - making false report to police - escaping from lawful custody - dangerous drugs - possession - 0.89 g of powder containing cocaine - road traffic offences - careless driving - using markings on vehicle with intent to deceive - driving without valid     driving licence - using a motor vehicle without third party insurance - failing to stop vehicle after incident - failing to report incident - defendant: (a) stole vehicle and drove it carelessly and without driving licence; (b) made false report of robbery; (c) escaped while being remanded in temporary cell inside police station; and (d) possessed drug in temporary cell 2. On 19 December 2016 the defendant stole PW1's private car, KM8879, which was parked in a street in Tuen Mun, with the car key inserted in the ignition without locking the door. PW1's friends posted the incident on Facebook.
 Careless driving
 3. At the material time, PW2 was driving along Tuen Mun and saw the stolen vehicle being driven by the defendant. As PW2 had seen the Facebook message before, he noticed that beneath the number plate of "GT426" there were other characters, that was "KM".
4. When approaching a traffic light, PW4 stopped his vehicle in front of the red light. PW2 stopped behind him. The defendant suddenly cut into their lane. The left-front part of the stolen vehicle collided with the right-back part of PW4's vehicle and also PW2's right-front bumper.
5. PW2 and his passenger, PW3, went up to the defendant, but could not open the car door. PW3 used his elbow to break the car window of the driver's seat. The defendant kicked open the car door and escaped after some struggle with PW2 and 3.
6. The police arrived and found a card-holder containing different cards, including the defendant's ID card, mobile phone and other personal items which did not belong to PW1.
7. Transport Department confirmed that the defendant was not a holder of any driving licence, while the insurance company also confirmed that the defendant was not covered by third party insurance. 