Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing death - light goods vehicle driven by defendant knocked down and killed 82-year-old pedestrian while backing up - defendant's culpability considered 2. The accident took place at a taxi stand outside Ground Floor, Nos.1-5 Nam Ning Street, Aberdeen.
3. The accident occurred at a segment of Nam Ning Street which had 3 lanes for vehicular traffic. The left and middle lanes were separated by a 30-metre long safety island. The left lane was designated as a taxi stand. The left side of the taxi stand was a pedestrian pavement. A 17-metre long pedestrian railing was erected along the taxi stand. There was no pedestrian crossing within 15 metres of the accident location.
 The Accident
 4. About 6:25 a.m. on 8 June 2016, the defendant drove a light goods vehicle SZ 6965 ("the LGV") into the taxi stand. A taxi was already at the front, so the defendant stopped the LGV behind that taxi. There was no pedestrian railing on the left side of the LGV. The defendant started unloading goods from the rear of the LGV and moving them to a shop on the left side of the taxi stand.
5. When he finished unloading the goods, the defendant returned to the driver's seat. The taxi was still stopped in front of the LGV. At that moment, Madam CHUNG ("the deceased"), who was pulling a trolley, walked from the pavement on the left side of the LGV, which was still stationary. She walked at a normal pace to the rear of the LGV. At one point, she placed her hand on the rear left side of the LGV to stabilize herself. The deceased continued to walk along the left lane behind the LGV.
6. At that moment, the defendant began to reverse the LGV, which was equipped with a rear view device 1 . After a few seconds, the LGV knocked down the deceased. The LGV continued to reverse and its rear tyres rolled over the deceased. The defendant stopped reversing and drove the LGV slightly forward. Its rear tyres rolled over the deceased again. The defendant stopped the LGV and alighted from it. Upon seeing the deceased, he used his mobile phone to call for help. The deceased was conscious when the ambulance arrived.
7. The accident was captured by the CCTV camera of a store nearby. The footage 2 pretty much tells the whole story. 