Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing death - using van when protective partition not permanently fitted on vehicle body and lower part not fitted - defendant drove light goods vehicle through red traffic light at pedestrian crossing and struck 77-year-old pedestrian crossing road 2. At about 1:38 pm on 24 April 2016, the defendant drove a light goods vehicle EK6833 along southbound Ma Tau Wai Road and approached a traffic junction near Chi Kiang Street, To Kwa Wan, Kowloon. When the defendant was approaching the traffic light junction, the traffic light for drivers was changing from green to amber. When the defendant's vehicle was about 2 metres away from the pedestrian crossing, the traffic light for drivers had already changed to red and the traffic light for pedestrians turned green.
3. At that juncture, the deceased, a 77-year-old elder lady, together with some other pedestrians, had started to cross the road. However, the defendant was still driving towards the pedestrian crossing despite the traffic light for drivers was red. He did not slow down and was driving at about 30 km per hour. As a result, the deceased was knocked down by the defendant's vehicle and was seriously injured. The deceased was taken to the hospital and was certified dead at 2:03 pm on the same day. The main cause of death was multiple head injuries.
4. Under cautioned, the defendant said he was travelling at about 20 to 30 km per hour at the material time. He saw the traffic light for drivers turned amber. He thought that he could pass through the pedestrian crossing before the light turned from amber to red. He did not see the deceased walking out from the pavement until the vehicle hit her.
5. The speed limit of the road in question was 50 km per hour. Before the accident, there had been shower so the road surface was wet. The rain had stopped at the time of the accident. At the material times, the traffic lights for drivers and pedestrians were all working properly. The amber light of the traffic light for drivers lasted for 3 seconds and it would then turn red. At the same time, when the traffic light for drivers was amber, the traffic light for pedestrians would be red. When the traffic light for drivers turned red, the traffic light for pedestrians would continue to be red for 2 seconds before it turned to green. 