Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing death - for reasons unknown, goods vehicle driven by defendant crashed into tow truck which was stationary within hard shoulder on highway, killing its driver who was performing duty outside truck - defendant's culpability considered 2. The accident took place at the hard shoulder of North Lantau Highway ("the Highway") airport bound near Chainage 7.4W, Siu Ho Wan. The Highway has a total of 6 lanes, with 3 lanes each going to the Airport and Tsing Yi directions respectively. The speed limit of the relevant segment of the Highway was 80 km/h. At the time of the accident, the weather was fine with sufficient lighting. The road surface was dry and the volume of traffic was light.
 The Accident
 3. About 11:20 p.m. on 24 September 2016, Mr. LAU (PW1) was driving a private car GG318 ("the Car") along the Highway towards the Airport. The right rear tyre of the Car suddenly exploded. PW1 then drove into the hard shoulder on the left side of the Highway and stopped the Car there with its hazard lights turned on. He called for assistance and Mr. KWOK ("the deceased") arrived at the scene on a tow truck UF679 ("the Tow Truck") around 12:20 a.m. on 25 September 2016.
4. The Tow Truck had flashing amber lights on top and the white lights at its rear were also turned on. The deceased stopped the Tow Truck in front of the Car and began putting the Car on tow. PW1 was standing inside the hard shoulder about 6 feet behind the Car. He noticed the cars on the 1st left lane slowing down as they went by, but none had to cut into the 2nd left (or middle) lane to avoid the 2 vehicles stopped at the hard shoulder.
5. About 2 seconds before the accident, PW1 noticed the deceased, who was about 5 to 6 metres away from him, walking within the hard shoulder on the right side of the Car towards the Tow Truck. PW1 was using his mobile phone then. He suddenly saw white lights in front of him and felt a gust of wind blowing from his right to left (believed to be coming from a medium goods vehicle 3 feet away from him). That medium goods vehicle was later confirmed to be MD2613 driven by the defendant ("the MGV"). Following that, PW1 heard a loud bang noise coming from his left. He looked up and saw dust and glass debris flying in the air. He did not hear any honking. The Car was pushed forward by about 2 car-lengths, but was still inside the hard shoulder facing the Airport direction.
6. PW1 saw the MGV, which was then about 4 car-lengths in front of the Car, moving along the 1st left lane decelerating and braking. It went forward for about 1 car-length before stopping on the 1st left lane. About 3 seconds after the collision, the MGV stopped. PW1 found the Tow Truck missing and the deceased lying on the 1st left lane behind the MGV.
7. Mr. HO (PW2) was driving a medium goods vehicle PE1838 ("V2") along the same segment of the Highway. According to him, V2 was in the middle lane; and the MGV, the 1st left lane. Right before the accident, V2 and the MGV were parallel with each other and there were no cars in front of them. PW2 saw the MGV suddenly moving diagonally towards the left at the same speed for no apparent reason. Its driver did not steer to the right to avoid the accident or give any signals indicating that he wanted to cut into the right. At that moment, the MGV was very close to the back of the Tow Truck. PW2 then saw the deceased standing on the white line of the hard shoulder (by the right side of the Tow Truck) facing the Tsing Yi direction. At the same time, PW2 saw the left front of the MGV hitting the right rear of the Tow Truck and heard a loud bang noise. He, however, did not see if the MGV had hit the deceased.
8. Ambulancemen arrived at the scene at 1:04 a.m. and found the deceased lying on the 1st left lane of the Highway about 5 to 6 car-lengths behind the MGV with his head facing the Tsing Yi direction. He was not breathing and had no pulse. The deceased was sent to North Lantau Hospital. He was certified dead at 1:30 a.m. the same day. The medical cause of death was head and chest injuries. Autopsy discovered the deceased having sustained multiple injuries including skull, ribs, lumber vertebrate, lungs and kidneys.
9. PC 49380 (PW4) arrived at the scene at 12:50 a.m. and was the 1st police officer to reach there. He found the Car stopped at the hard shoulder; and the Tow Truck, in the 1st left lane in front of the MGV. The Car was about 29.5 metres behind the MGV; and the MGV was about 9.4 metres behind the Tow Truck. Upon initial enquiry, the defendant told PW4 that he was driving the MGV along the 1st left lane at 60 to 70 km/h. He saw the Car and the Tow Truck in the hard shoulder from afar. He therefore drove the MGV towards the right to avoid the Car and was about to cut into the 2nd left lane. He then saw a truck approaching at high speed from behind on the 2nd left land, so immediately steered to the left to avoid collision with that truck, causing the MGV to crash into the hard shoulder and collide with the Car and the Tow Truck. He did not see the deceased at the time.
10. Under caution, the defendant repeated the same explanation. In his video recorded interview, the defendant stated that at the time of the accident, he had been driving the MGV for 1 to 2 months and had 10 years of experience in driving medium goods vehicles. He started working at midnight that evening. He loaded the goods at Kwai Chung and was heading towards the Airport. dangerous driving dangerous driving 