Tort - negligence - nuisance - water seepage from premises to presmises immediately below - whether owners of former premises liable
Damages - assessment - water seepage from premises to presmises immediately below 1. This is a water seepage case involving two units of a multi-story building known as Tower 1, The Astoria, No 198 Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong ("the Building"). The plaintiff is the registered owner of Flat A on the 6th Floor ("Flat 6A") of the Building whilst the defendants are the registered owners of the flat immediately above ("Flat 7A").
2. The occupation permit of the Building was issued on 14 June 1991. It is common ground that both Flat 7A and Flat 6A are subject to a Deed of Mutual Covenant registered in the Land Registry by Memorial No 4995394 ("the DMC"). Clause 13 of Section IV of the DMC provides that:- "Each owner shall maintain in good repair and condition his Unit to the satisfaction of the Manager and in such manner as to avoid any loss, damage, nuisance or annoyance to the Owners or occupiers of any other part or parts of the Building".
3. The saleable area of each of Flat 7A and Flat 6A is about 923 square feet. Each of Flat 7A and Flat 6A has a living/dining room, a master bedroom with master bathroom, two bedrooms and a guest bathroom.
4. The plaintiff became the registered owner of Flat 6A on 9 August 2010 and has been living at Flat 6A with her parents shortly after 9 August 2010.
5. The defendants are an elderly married couple who are and were at all material times living at Flat 7A.
6. On 15 August 2011, the plaintiff commenced the present action against the defendants claiming damages for water seepage. She claims that the defendants are liable to her for breach of Clause 13 of Section IV of the DMC and in nuisance and negligence. The plaintiff also claims for a mandatory and prohibitory injunction.
7. The particulars of the plaintiff's claim can be summarised as follows 1 :- 
 (1) In or about December 2010, water was found emerging along the foot of the walls in the dining room, corridor, and the wall in the master bedroom near the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (2) In or about early January 2011, water was found emerging from underneath the bathtub in the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (3) In or about mid-January 2011, water was found emerging from the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (4) In or around mid-March 2011, sewage was found emerging from the master bathroom and walls of the dining room of Flat 6A;
 (5) On or about 19 October 2011, water was found to seep through a branch waste pipe connecting to the outlet of vertical floor drain in the master bathroom of Flat 7A to the skirting of the living room of Flat 6A;
 (6) On or around 19 July 2012, water was found to seep through the floor slab underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A to the ceilings and walls of Flat 6A; and
 (7) On or around 16 August 2012, water was found to seep through the floor slab underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A to the ceilings and walls of Flat 6A.
 
8. The defence denies that any water seepage had occurred in Flat 6A. Further or alternatively, if any water seepage had occurred in Flat 6A, the defence case is that 2 :- 
 (1) Water seepage was caused by water emanating and/or otherwise originating from the fresh water pipes of Flat 6A, including those concealed in the walls in the master bathroom of Flat 6A at a position between the water heater and the faucet of the bathtub, and/or from the rims of the bathtub in the master bathroom, and/or from the drainage pipe fittings of the bathtub in the master bathroom;
 (2) As a result of such water seepage, water accumulated in the floor recess underneath the bathtub in the master bathroom of Flat 6A;
 (3) The water which had thus accumulated seeped along the floor slab of the master bedroom of Flat 6A into other parts of Flat 6A, thereby causing seepage to the areas of Flat 6A set out in §§7(1), (2) and (4) of the Amended Statement of Claim;
 (4) As regards water seepage at the ceiling in the master bedroom of Flat 6A, water did not emanate or otherwise originate from Flat 7A; and
 (5) Moreover, there was dilapidation in the external wall of Flat 6A and Flat 7A which may have caused and/or contributed to the water seepage in the ceilings of Flat 6A.
 
9. As agreed between the parties in the Joint Statement of Issues in Dispute dated 12 November 2015, the main issues in dispute in this case are: (1) whether any water seepage at Flat 6A originated from Flat 7A or from other sources; (2) insofar as the water seepage originated from Flat 7A, the period during which Flat 6A was affected by the water seepage, and whether such seepage has already cased and, if so, when? (3) whether the defendants are liable to the plaintiff for negligence, nuisance and breach of the DMC; and insofar as the defendants are held liable, what loss and damage the plaintiff has suffered as a result of the water seepage, and whether the plaintiff has properly mitigated the loss and damage?
10. Some of these issues overlap to a large extent and where appropriate they will be dealt with together. C. BACKGROUND AND MATERIAL FACTS NOT IN DISPUTE
 12. The following material facts, which are taken from documentary and unchallenged evidence, are not in dispute.
13. Since about December 2010, the plaintiff discovered that water was emerging along the foot of the walls in the dining room, corridor, and the wall in the master bedroom near the master bathroom of Flat 6A. Since early January 2011, the plaintiff discovered that water was emerging from underneath the bathtub in the master bathroom and the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A. Since about March 2011, the plaintiff further discovered that water was emerging from the master bathroom and the walls of the dining room of Flat 6A. Since about mid-March 2011, the plaintiff also noticed foul smell in the master bathroom of Flat 6A.
14. On 11 April 2011, a blue dye test was conducted by a Mr Poon, a plumber, to the flushing cistern of the toilets in Flat 7A. On 16 April 2011, the plaintiff found blue colour water underneath the bathtub in the master bathroom of Flat 6A.
15. On 21 April 2011, an orange dye test was conducted by Mr Poon to the flushing cistern of the toilets in Flat 7A. On 24 April 2011, the plaintiff found yellowish orange colour seeped out at the foot of the wall in the dining room in Flat 6A. Meanwhile, a Mr Kong of the Management Office of the Building ("the MO") reported the water seepage in Flat 6A to the Joint Office of the Buildings Department/Food and Environmental Hygiene Department Joint Office (respectively "the Joint Office", "the BD" and "the FEHD").
16. Pausing here, I note that the orange dye test conducted in Flat 7A on 21 April 2011 and the discovery of water seepage in Flat 6A on 24 April 2011 were referred to in the following documents:- 
 (1) Firstly, in the Survey Report prepared by Great East Asia Surveyors & Consultants Co Ltd ("GEA") dated 30 April 2011 ("GEA's Report") (see below), it is stated that:- "On 21st April 2011, the Management Office arranged a technician to carry out the dye test on [Flat 7A]. Yellow colour water was found on the floor of the Dining room (near the Bathroom) [of Flat 6A] after two days".
 (2) Secondly, in the email from the plaintiff to the defendants dated 22 July 2011, the plaintiff stated that:- " plumber Mr. Poon had applied orange dyes & blue dyes in your washroom, both come out in my dining room & washroom a few days after application under the surveillance of the Customer Service of Astoria in end Apr. I am sure you are aware of the results "
  The defendants did not reply to this email.
 (3) Thirdly, it is stated in the letter from the Joint Office to the plaintiff's solicitors dated 18 September 2015 that on 21 April 2011, a Mr. Kong of the MO reported the water seepage in Flat 6A to the Joint Office.
 
17. In April 2011, the plaintiff engaged GEA to assess the damage caused by the water seepage to Flat 6A. On 30 April 2011, GEA prepared the GEA's Report.
18. On 12 August 2011, the FEHD inspected Flat 6A and found two seepage areas in Flat 6A, namely, at the ceiling in the master bedroom and the gap between the wood parquet tile and wall edge near the guest bathroom. The moisture content at the ceiling in the master bedroom was found to be above 35%. On the same day, the FEHD conducted colour water test in all the drainage outlets in the master bathroom, guest bathroom and kitchen of Flat 7A.
19. On 15 August 2011, the plaintiff issued the writ in this action with the statement of claim.
20. On 19 August 2011, the FEHD visited Flat 6A. The plaintiff submitted tissue and cardboard which were stained with colour to FEHD for analysis. According to the plaintiff, the samples were collected from the gap between the wood parquet tile and wall edge near the guest bathroom.
21. On 31 August 2011, the FEHD visited Flat 6A again. The plaintiff's mother submitted 2 bags of cardboard with pink colour to FEHD for analysis. According to the plaintiff's mother, the cardboards were collected from the gap between the wood parquet tile and wall edge near the guest bathroom.
22. According to the government laboratory reports respectively dated 9 and 14 September 2011, colour water was found in the samples submitted by the plaintiff and the plaintiff's mother, which indicated that the floor drain in the master bedroom of Flat 7A was defective causing dampness at the gap between the wood parquet tile and wall edge near the guest bathroom of Flat 6A.
23. On 14 September 2011, the FEHD visited Flat 6A again for a review of the colour water test. The moisture content at the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A was found to be above 35% and colour stain was detected on the bottle traps on the external walls of 7/F. The plaintiff submitted samples which she said were collected from the gap between the wood parquet tile and wall edge near the guest bathroom to FEHD for analysis.
24. On 6 October 2011, the plaintiff engaged Hong Kong Building Inspection & Structural Diagnostic Ltd ("HKBISDL") to inspect Flat 6A. On 10 January 2012, HKBISDL prepared a water seepage report on Flat 6A.
25. On 8 October 2011, the defendants engaged Wong Shun Tai, Stewart of Proficient Surveyors & Co ("Mr Wong") to inspect Flat 7A and Flat 6A. He conducted a green dye test to the floor and floor drain of the guest toilet and a bluish brown dye test to the basin, toilet bowl and bathtub in the master bathroom of Flat 7A but did not conduct any dye test on Flat 6A. He also measured the moisture content of the ceiling and walls in the master bathroom of Flat 6A. On 11 November 2011, Mr Wong prepared a survey report ("Mr Wong's Survey Report") in which he opined that water leaked from the fresh water pipes concealed in the walls in the master bathroom of Flat 6A at a position between the water heater and the faucet of the bathtub, that water accumulated in the floor recess underneath the bathtub of the master bedroom of Flat 6A and that water seeped along the floor slab of master bathroom to reach the timber flooring outside the guest bathroom of Flat 6A. I shall have more to say about Mr Wong's opinion contained in this survey report when I analyse his opinion contained in the Joint Report dated 11 August 2015 ("the Joint Report") (see Section E below).
26. On 17 October 2011, the FEHD visited Flat 6A again and found that the moisture content at the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A was below 35%. The plaintiff submitted to FEHD tissue and paper samples which she claimed were collected from the gap between the wood parquet tile and wall edge near the guest bathroom for analysis as suspected fluorescent colour was detected on the cement between the tiles in the guest bathroom of Flat 6A.
27. On 19 October 2011, the FEHD served a Nuisance Notice on the defendants ("the 1st Nuisance Notice"), stating that the nuisance was "water seepage through the branch waste pipe connecting to the outlet of vertical floor drain in the master bathroom at [Flat 7A] to the skirting of living room of [Flat 6A]." The defendants were demanded to repair satisfactorily the branch waste pipe connecting to the outlet of vertical floor drain in the master bathroom of Flat 7A within 14 days.
28. It is the defendants' case that upon receiving the 1st Nuisance Notice, they blocked the branch waste pipe in the master bathroom of Flat 7A.
29. On 16 November 2011, the FEHD visited Flat 7A and found that the floor drain in the master bathroom of Flat 7A was blocked and the Nuisance Notice complied with.
30. On 24 November 2011, the FEHD visited Flat 6A again and found that the moisture content at the gap between wood parquet tile and lower portion of wall near guest bathroom of Flat 6A was above 35%. On 15 December 2011, considering the persistence of the water seepage, the FEHD referred the matter to the BD for Stage III professional investigation.
31. For the purpose of Stage III professional investigation, the Joint Office engaged Multiple Surveyors Ltd ("MSL") to conduct various tests on Flat 7A and Flat 6A. At the visual inspection/initial investigation stage on 7 January and 16 February 2012 respectively, MSL noted that the condition of seepage was consistently all day long at the ceiling of master bathroom and guest bathroom and the wall of living room of Flat 6A and that the moisture content at the ceiling in master bathroom and wall of living room of Flat 6A was above 35%. After the visual inspection/initial investigation, MSL recommended to proceed with further investigation. As part of the further investigation, on 9 March 2012, MSL conducted the following tests on Flat 7A:- 
 (1) Water ponding test with acid red ("AR") dye applied to the bathtub and its enclosing walls of master bathroom;
 (2) Water ponding test with fluorescent sodium ("FS") dye applied to bathtub and its enclosing walls of guest bathroom; and
 (3) Water ponding test with brilliant scarlet ("BS") dye applied to the floor slab of the guest bathroom.
 
32. Based on the above tests, MSL prepared an Inspection Report dated 15 May 2012 ("MSL's Inspection Report"). In MSL's Inspection Report, it is stated that MSL observed FS at the wall of the living room of Flat 6A on 9 and 10 March, 3 and 27 April 2012 and at the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A on 3 and 27 April 2012. MSL concluded that the source of leakage was from the floor underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A and that it was not likely that the leakage was due to water supply pipe leakage or rain water leakage. Photos Nos 13 to 24 attached to MSL's Inspection Report 3 are particularly helpful as they clearly show the florescent effect of FS dye under UV light at the wall of the living room and the ceiling in the master bathroom of Flat 6A on the dates specified above. MSL recommended the Joint Office to issue an advisory letter to the owners of Flat 7A to abate the seepage nuisance.
33. On or about 4 March 2012, the plaintiff and her parents moved out of Flat 6A. Since 21 April 2012, water supply to Flat 6A had been suspended.
34. On 19 July 2012, based on the recommendation of the BD, the FEHD served a 2nd Nuisance Notice on the defendants, stating that the nuisance was "water seepage through the floor slab underneath bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of [Flat 7A] to the ceilings and walls of [Flat 6A]". The defendants were demanded to repair satisfactorily the floor slab underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A "by suitably maintaining and providing well-protected water proofing material to the said floor slab and walls to prevent water seepage to [Flat 6A]" within 21 days. 4 It should be noted that the 2nd Nuisance Notice alluded to the absence of water proofing material at the floor slab and walls of the guest bathroom of Flat 7A as being the reason for the water seepage. Although the 2nd Nuisance did not specify what "ceilings and walls" in Flat 6A were being referred to, judging from MSL"s Report which the Joint Office must have relied on, it is reasonable to infer that the "walls" referred to was the wall of the living room of Flat 6A and that the "ceilings" referred to was the "ceiling" of the master bathroom of Flat 6A.
35. It is the defendants' case that upon receiving the 2nd Nuisance Notice, they engaged a contractor to cover the floor slab of the guest bathroom of Flat 7A and apply water-proof material at around the bath tub rims. Similar work was done to the master bathroom of Flat 7A.
36. On 25 September 2012, the FEHD visited Flat 6A again and found that the moisture content of the seepage areas were below 35%. However, the plaintiff reported that a new seepage area at Flat 6A, which was located at the lower portion of the wall in the passageway near the guest bathroom, the moisture content of which was above 35%. On the same day, the FEHD also visited Flat 7A and found signs of repair on the floor slab underneath the bathtub of the guest bathroom.
37. On 2 November 2012, the FEHD visited Flat 6A and confirmed that the moisture content of the affected areas was below 35%. Thus, the Revised 2nd Nuisance Notice was found to have been complied with.
38. On 6 November 2012, the Joint Office sent a final reply letter to the plaintiff and the defendants which were in substantially identical terms. In the letter, the Joint Office (1) referred to the Revised 2nd Nuisance Notice whereby the defendants were demanded to repair satisfactorily the floor slab underneath the bathtub and its enclosing walls in the guest bathroom of Flat 7A; (2) stated that it had visited Flat 6A and found that the moisture content of the seepage areas were below 35%; however since there was a new seepage area located at the lower portion of the wall in the passageway near the guest bedroom, the moisture content of which was above 35%, the Joint Office would need to engage a consultant company for further investigation; and (3) stated that on 2 November 2012 it visited Flat 6A again and found that the moisture content of the affected areas were below 35% and thus the Revised 2nd Nuisance Notice had been complied with. 