Civil procedure - summary judgment - action against incorporated owners for breach of deed of mutual covenant and nuisance - whether defence raised triable issues 2. The plaintiff is the owner of the property situated at and known as Flat A, 8th Floor, Dak Shing Building, 88 Java Road, Hong Kong (respectively the "Property" and the "Building").
3. The defendant is the incorporated owners of the Building. It was incorporated and registered on 30 July 1973 under the Multi-storey Buildings (Owners Incorporation) Ordinance 1970, now known as the Building Management Ordinance, Cap 344 (the "BMO").
4. The Building is erected on Sub-section 6 of Section A of Inland Lot No 3539 (the "Lot"). It consists of 8 storeys and ground floor together with cocklofts. There are 8 units on the 8th Floor of the Building which are immediately underneath the roof of the Building. The units are 4 Flats A and 4 Flats B. The portions of the roof above the 4 Flats B on the 8th Floor are private properties belonging to the respective owners of the corresponding Flats B on the 8th Floor. The roof top immediately above the Property and all Flats A on the 8th Floor of the Building (the "Roof Top") originally belonged to Kee Yip Company Limited, the developer of the Building (the "Developer"), who owned 4 equal undivided 80 shares of the Building and of the Lot (the "4 undivided shares") which carried the right to the exclusive use, occupation and enjoyment of the Roof Top.
 5. On 11 September 1991, the Developer was dissolved by members' voluntary winding up. Prior to the winding up of the Developer, the majority liquidators of the Developer applied by way of originating summons dated 21 December 1990 pursuant to section 268 of the Companies Ordinance, Cap 32 for a court order that "the Applicant as such Liquidators be at liberty to disclaim its interest estate and right of and in the property set out in the Schedule hereto (forming the only remaining asset of the [Developer] which has not been realised)". The property to be disclaimed is the 4 undivided shares and is described in the Schedule (the "Schedule") as follows:- "The [Developer's] interest estate and right of and in ALL THOSE 4 equal undivided 80th parts or shares of and in [the Lot] being the notional residual shares owned and held by the [Developer] after the [Developer] had assigned of all those 76 equal undivided 80 parts or shares of and in the Lot and of and in the [Building] Together with the exclusive right to the use occupation and enjoyment of all the self-contained flats and units therein and the roofs thereof to the respective purchasers thereof."

 On 12 February 1991, an order was granted in terms of the originating summons and pursuant thereto a notice of disclaimer dated 23 February 1991 (the "Notice of Disclaimer") was issued whereby the majority liquidators of the Developer disclaimed all interest estate and right of and in the 4 undivided shares.
6. In this action, the plaintiff claims that water seeped through the Roof Top to the Property thereby causing damage to the Property. It is the plaintiff's case that the Roof Top, further or in the alternative, the waterproof layer at the Roof Top (the "Waterproof Layer"), is a common part of the Building. The plaintiff alleges that as the incorporated owners of the Building, the defendant is under a duty to maintain the Roof Top and/or the Waterproof Layer and that the defendant has failed and/or neglected to maintain the Roof Top and/or the Waterproof Layer in a good and proper state of repair and condition as a result of which water seeped through the Roof Top to the Property thereby causing damage to the Property. It is alleged that such failure or neglect on the part of the defendant constitutes breach of the Deed of Mutual Covenant in respect of the Building (the "DMC"), section 18(1)(a) of the BMO, section 34H of the BMO, duty of care in tort and nuisance.
7. The defendant denies that the Roof Top is a common part of the Building and does not admit that there is a waterproof layer at the Roof Top, but accepts that if there is a waterproof layer at the Roof Top then it is a common part of the Building. The defendant further denies that water seeped through the Roof Top to the Property. 