Damages - assessment - nuisance - water seepage from premises to premises immediately below Master Lee Siu Ho
 1. The 1st and 2nd plaintiffs began this action of negligence by writ of summons issued on 10 May 2016. For defendant's failure to give notice of intention to defend, on 28 Nov 2016, they obtained interlocutory judgment against the defendant for damages to be assessed.
2. The two plaintiffs are husband and wife. They seek to recover altogether 5 heads of damages for loss and expenses they suffered or incurred due to water seepage (discovered on 2 Feb 2015) from factory unit owned by defendant to office unit rented by the 1st plaintiff husband ( the office unit  ) one floor immediately below 1 in an industrial building in San Po Kong.
3. Their total claims are particularized at para 11, and prayer (b), of their Statement of Claim dated 9 May 2016 ( SOC  ) in the sum of $427,520. The breakdowns are: - (1) damaged furniture and equipment - $56,450; (2) damaged goods of 1st plaintiff - $230,000; (3) damaged goods of 2nd plaintiff - $31,070; (4) costs of repairs etc. - $90,000; and (5) costs of surveyor - $20,000.
4. At the hearing before me, none turned up on behalf of the defendant. After hearing counsel Ms Cathy Chan ( Ms Chan  ) instructed by Messrs. Yip & Co. for the plaintiffs, I am satisfied on the affirmations of service before me that the defendant has been properly notified of this hearing and I decided to proceed with the assessment in the absence of the defendant.
5. Ms Chan has helpfully prepared a written opening submissions for the hearing and I am grateful for her assistance. She called altogether 3 factual witnesses in the following order, namely, the 1st plaintiff, Mr Wong Chung Yin ( Mr Wong  ) and Ms Shing Tsz Lam ( Ms Shing  ). The 3 of them adopted their respective witness statements as their evidence in chief.
6. No direction for adducing expert evidence was given and Ms Chan fairly agreed that a condition survey report dated 19 March 2015 for the office unit ( the report  ) prepared by Wong Man Hong Surveyors Ltd. ( the surveyor  ) be admissible as factual evidence only and such parts thereof by way of opinions should be disregarded by this court. Background
 12. At all material times, the 1st plaintiff ran a trading business in the trade name of "Creation Industries Company" at the office unit and the 2nd plaintiff also ran there a garment trading business in the trade name of "Millennium Uniform Acc. Ctr".
13. At all material times, the 1st plaintiff rented the office unit from Luen Fat Decoration and Construction Company Limited ( Luen Fat  ) at a monthly rental of $4,200. The 2 plaintiffs jointly paid the rental of the office unit. Its gross area was about 500 square feet.
14. At all material times, Luen Fat carried on a decoration business and its director was Mr Wong. Luen Fat did not own the office unit; it rented the office unit and other adjoining units from other and in turn let them out to, inter alia, 1st plaintiff.
15. Ms Shing has an English name of Iris and she was at all material times an insurance agent.
16. On 2 Feb 2015, the 1st plaintiff returned to the office unit and found out that that there was severe water seepage inside, with water dripping continuously from the ceiling, causing the floor to be flooded and wet, the furniture and goods inside to be soaked and damaged, accompanied with strong repellent odor. 