Tort - nuisance - water dampness over floor of plaintiff's premises - whether caused by condensation of water arising from low temperature in computer server room at defendant's premises immediately below - whether operation of server room amounted to actionable nuisance - appropriate relief
Damages - assessment - nuisance - water dampness over floor of plaintiff's premises caused by defendant's premises immediately below Factual background
 5. The following facts are common ground or not in any serious dispute.
6. In April 2013, the plaintiff acquired the office unit which is known as "Unit 1703" in a building in Chai Wan, Hong Kong ("the Building"). There are a number of office units on that floor, namely, the 17th Floor. After taking up the unit, the plaintiff had it divided into two sub-units, namely, Unit 1703A and Unit 1703B, which measure about 410 square feet and 703 square feet respectively. I shall refer to them as "Unit A" and "Unit B" below. Unit A is the unit affected by the water dampness. It is an "internal" room in that it has no window and is enclosed by four internal walls, with a door opening into the common corridor of the floor.
7. Mr Liu Wai Lun and his wife are the directors and shareholders of the plaintiff. Mr Liu said in examination-in-chief that the plaintiff is engaged in the business of property investment.
8. The Building is for industrial and office use.
9. The history of the use of the 16th and 17th floors of the Building is relevant to the present dispute. From July 2008 to April 2011, the 2nd defendant was in occupation of the whole of the 17th floor. It moved down to the 16th floor in April 2011 and has since occupied the whole of that floor as tenant of the 1st defendant. In other words, when the plaintiff took up Unit 1703, the 2nd defendant had already been in occupation of the whole of the 16th floor using it as an office. The exact relationship between the 1st and 2nd defendants is not known save that they have common directors. The two defendants have had the same legal representation in these proceedings.
10. At some time after the 2nd defendant moved out of the 17th floor, it seems to be the case that the owner of the 17th floor partitioned that floor into a number of units and either sold or let them out separately. And, in this process, the plaintiff purchased one of the units, namely, Unit 1703. (It would appear that prior to the 2nd defendant's occupation the original layout of the 17th floor had comprised partitioned units, rather than one open space. Therefore, the floor was being reinstated to its original layout.) There was a large scale, floor-wide, renovation going on from at least February 2013, where works on the partitioning of the units and common facilities, such as common corridors on the floor, were carried out. At about the same time, renovation was also in progress within the individual units. For instance, the plaintiff says that the renovation of Unit B was ongoing till late August or early September 2013. However, it is not entirely clear when the common area renovation was completed.
11. It is common ground that immediately below Unit A is the computer server room set up by the 2nd defendant ("the Server Room"). The latter is smaller in size than the former. The relative positions of the two units are plotted in a diagram in the joint expert report dated 24 March 2016 prepared by the parties' respective experts ("the Joint Report") in which the Server Room is superimposed on Unit A. The diagram shows that both units are broadly rectangular in shape and that the top and right-hand boundaries of the units (as shown in the diagram) are aligned, when viewed directly from above. In other words, in the diagram, the Server Room takes up the top right-hand corner of Unit A.
12. There are five computer server racks in the Server Room. Because of the heat generated by the servers, the Server Room has to be, and has been, maintained at a temperature which is lower than the other parts of the office on the 16th floor. This was confirmed by the defendants, through their counsel, Mr Ross M Y Yuen, at trial. Furthermore, such lower temperature needs to be maintained round the clock. Apart from the fan coil unit supplying central air-conditioning (which is provided by the management of the Building), the 2nd defendant had installed two split-type air-conditioning units in the Server Room. There are therefore a total of three cooling sources in the Server Room. I shall refer to them as "FCU", "AC1" and "AC2" respectively.
13. The position of the three air-conditioning units is of some relevance to the present dispute. There are three parallel beams across the ceiling of the Server Room - one running above the entrance wall, one running across the centre of the ceiling and, lastly, one running above the wall opposite the entrance wall. So, as a reference point, the second beam divides the ceiling into roughly two halves. I shall refer to that part of the ceiling bounded by the entrance wall and the centre beam as "Portion A" of the ceiling and that part of the ceiling bounded by the centre beam and the opposite wall as "Portion B".
14. AC1 is mounted on the ceiling beam above the entrance wall and AC2 is mounted on the ceiling beam above the opposite wall. The air grille of FCU is installed right next to AC2 at the adjoining wall. In other words, there is one cooling source installed at Portion A of the ceiling whereas there are two cooling sources at Portion B. 