Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving - driving motor vehicle with alcohol concentration in blood exceeding prescribed limit - defendant drove vehicle dangerously for 30 minutes to evade lawful apprehension of police, doing so with no less than 75 milligrammes of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood - offences caused slight injuries to two police officers and damage to five vehicles, entailing repair cost totalling $306,514, for which defendant unable to compensate - defendant's culpability considered 1. It was a scene worthy of a Hollywood movie. On 5 December 2016, at about 1740 hours, a police officer on motor cycle patrol first noticed a vehicle LD 8880 (the vehicle) parked in a restricted zone on Sunny Bay Road, Lantau. Upon closer inspection, he noticed its driver, Mr Mok Lai Man Edward (the defendant), appeared to be talking on the telephone. The policeman pulled over in front of the vehicle, upon which the vehicle drove off.
2. While the vehicle was travelling on Cheung Tung Road westbound, it swerved into the opposite lane (ie the eastbound lane) for 2 or 3 times. It passed by an intersection (ie Sham Shui Kok Drive), reversed and drove back into Sham Shui Kok Drive. It then made a right turn into Cheung Tung Road eastbound. The defendant's antics caused the policeman who had all along been travelling behind the vehicle to turn around and follow the vehicle, meanwhile sounding his horn and gesticulating its driver to stop, but the vehicle just sped on.
3. Thus began a 30 minute pursuit, covering a distance of 22 kilometres. It ended up with the defendant crashing the vehicle into a parapet strand along the Lantau Link, LD 8880.
4. During the pursuit, the defendant made the following manoeuvres:- 
 Along Cheung Tung Road westbound 
 (i) swerving into the opposite lane, ie, Cheung Tung Road eastbound, for two to three times;
 (ii) having driven past the intersection at the junction of Shum Shui Kok Drive, the defendant reversed back into the junction and then drove forward before turning back into Cheung Tung Road, this time travelling on the eastbound lane.
 Along Cheung Tung Road eastbound 
 (iii) ignoring the police officer's horn and gesticulations, instead keeping a speed of about 80 kilometres per hour along Sunny Bay Road towards Penny's Bay Highway;
 (iv) ignoring the police officer's hand signal to stop at a roadblock set up on the first lane of Sunny Bay Road, instead accelerating, driving onto the second lane to go past the roadblock. The defendant then executed two about turns and ended up going back on the same lane on Sunny Bay Road;
 (v) forcing through the same roadblock (now extended by police officers to cover the first and second lane) by driving between the first and second lane, in the process ramming into a coach (vehicle 1), a light goods vehicle (vehicle 2) and a police vehicle (vehicle 3) which were stationary at the roadblock. The defendant then took Penny's Bay Highway, passed the North Lantau Highway and then drove onto the Lantau Link.
 Along Lantau Link 
 (vi) driving at a speed of 100 to 120 kilometres per hour when the limit for the stretch of road was 80 km/h;
 (vii) swerving between the first and second lanes to overtake other vehicles.
 Near Chainage 14.2E Lantau Link 
 (viii) ignoring demands to stop via loudspeaker by the pursuing police officers from a police vehicle (vehicle 4) travelling immediately behind on the first left lane;
 (ix) while the vehicle and vehicle 4 were travelling side by side on first and second left lane respectively, swerving into the right lane (ie the second left lane) and ramming into the left side of vehicle 4.
 Near Chainage 14.8E Lantau Link 
 (x) accelerating to cut into the second left lane to overtake vehicle 4. In the process ramming into the left side of vehicle 4.
 Near Chainage 15.5E Lantau Link 
 (xi) accelerating and ramming into the rear of a private car (vehicle 5) which was travelling on same lane, ie, the second left lane.
 Near Chainage 15.8E Lantau Link 
 (xii) accelerating suddenly and cutting into the first left lane from the second left lane, in the process causing a slight collision with vehicle 4 which was in pursuit on the first left lane.
 
5. As a result of the collision, the defendant lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the tensioned parapet strand on the left, then spun around before coming to a halt.
6. After the crash, the defendant got out of the vehicle and climbed over the fencing of the bridge. He was eventually subdued by the police officers. At the time, the defendant proclaimed aloud his wish to die. He remained silent under caution.
7. The blood sample taken from the defendant at the hospital confirmed that there was no less than 75 milligrammes of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood which is over the subscribed limit of 50 milligrammes, a Tier 1 overdose.
8. Under caution, the defendant admitted that he had consumed a bottle of brandy as he was depressed.
 Injuries and damages
 9. As a result of the incident, two police officers suffered mild injuries, namely, swelling of the ankle and wrist respectively. Both were granted four days' sick leave to recover.
10. In all, five vehicles were damaged in varying degrees and their bills of repair run up a grand total of $306,514:- 
 Vehicle 1 
 Damages to the left side bumper. The cost of repair estimated to be HK$10,000.
 Vehicle 2 
 Damages to the right side door, right side front bumper and indication lamp. The cost of repair estimated to be $9,000.
 Vehicle 3 
 The police vehicle's right side had been damaged. The cost of repair estimated to be $30,938.
 Vehicle 4 
 The police vehicle incurred damages on its front side and left side. The cost of repair was estimated to be $246,576.
 Vehicle 5 
 The private car was damaged on its rear door and rear bumper. The cost of repair was estimated to be $10,000.
 
11. It is obvious to anyone that the defendant's driving had been, dangerous, reckless and irresponsible, falling far below the standard of a competent and careful driver. dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving 