Criminal law and procedure - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing grievous bodily harm - leave to appeal conviction - granted  4. On 30 December 2014 at around 7:04 pm, the applicant was driving his car, registration number BT189, near the junction of Argyle Street and Tong Mi Road in Mong Kok. As he traversed this junction he collided with a motorcycle RW5129, driven by Yeung Tin Lok Patrick (PW1). The applicant was driving down Argyle Street westbound when he entered the junction with Tong Mi Road. PW1 was driving along Tong Mi Road, southbound when he entered the junction with Argyle Street. The junction is of two busy roads and is governed by traffic lights. When the applicant drove into the junction the traffic light applicable to him was red and the traffic light applicable to PW1 was green.
5. The applicant admitted that he drove into the junction against a red light and admitted that he did so as a consequence of having made a number of errors. The issue at trial was whether the applicant was guilty of  dangerous   driving  or of the lesser offence of careless driving.
6. For the purposes of this judgment I shall not go into the evidence in any detail. Apart from the victim there were three civilian witnesses, two police officers and two experts. The three civilian witnesses consisted of two taxi drivers and a passenger in one of the taxis. A camera in one of the taxis captured the accident as it happened. Another video camera on a public light bus which was stopped at the intersection, in a lane of Tong Mi Road northbound, also captured the accident.
7. The evidence of the two police officers included contested evidence of statements made by the applicant to them at the scene of the accident.
8. The prosecution did not seek to prove that the applicant exceeded the speed limit. But the prosecution did call an expert witness to determine the applicant's speed. This witness concluded that the applicant's vehicle was driving at an estimated speed of 47 km/hr, and it was "highly likely jumping the red light of the vehicular traffic signal governing westbound Argyle Street before the collision. The traffic light governing V2 (BT189) changed from green to amber at about 7 seconds before the front of V2 (BT189) arrived at the yellow box of the junction" 1 . He agreed that there was a double decker bus stationary in the first lane of Argyle Street, westbound, and that BT189 was probably on the second lane from the left when it passed the white stop line of the junction. dangerous driving dangerous driving 