Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving - misreading traffic light, defendant drove taxi into road junction and collided with another vehicle, causing death of one of passengers on board taxi - defendant had clear record throughout past 18 years in which he worked as taxi driver - whether suspended sentence warranted 3. The incident happened at the junction of Tin Kwong Road and Kau Pui Lung Road, To Kwa Wan. At the material time, PW1 was driving a light goods van with the registration number GT900 (V1). The defendant was driving a taxi HM8997 (V2) with three passengers on board, namely PW2 Shum, PW2's wife and Ms Ngan Siu-fai (Ngan) who was aged 43.
4. Tin Kwong Road is a four-lane-dual carriage way running from East to West. At the junction on the westbound, the fist left lane is designated only for left turn traffic with the second left lane for straight travelling traffic. On the other hand, Kau Pui Lung Road is a three lane dual carriage ways: two lanes going northbound and one southbound. The first left lane of the northbound Kau Pui Lung Road is designated for left turn and straight travelling traffic while the second left lane is only for right turn traffic.
5. At the material time, the weather was fine with sufficient street light. The road surface was dry. The speed limit at the junction was 50 kilometres per hour. All the traffic lights installed at the junction were functioning properly.
6. At about 9:55 pm on 21 June 2016, PW1 drove V1 travelling along the second left lane of the northbound Kau Pui Lung Road. V1 stopped at the white stopping line when the traffic light was red. When the traffic light turned green, V1 moved forward at about 5 to 10 kilometres per hour and reached the junction, with a view to turn right into the eastbound lane of Tin Kwong Road.
7. When V1 was crossing the junction, V2 was travelling on the second left lane of westbound Tin Kwong Road. PW1 attempted to swerve and accelerate in order to avoid collision. However, the speed of V2 was faster than V1. PW1 observed that the defendant did not slow down or even stop the V2. As a result, the front of V2 collided into the offside of V1.
8. PW1 alighted his van. He noticed that the defendant and two passengers at the rear seat of V2 did not suffer any injuries. However, Ngan, the passenger in the front seat with seat belt on, complained that she was very painful. PW1 made a report to the police.
9. Upon investigation by the police officer at the scene, the defendant stated that he was the driver of V2 and was travelling on the second left lane of westbound Tin Kwong Road. He has stopped V2 when approaching the junction. However, the defendant mistook the green traffic light for left turn on the first left lane as the traffic light for the traffic on the second lane too. He drove into the junction and caused the collision with V1. Ngan was later escorted to the hospital.
10. PW2 said when V2 was approaching the junction, he noticed that the traffic light governing the first left lane was green only for turning left and the traffic governing the second lane was still red. The defendant did not slow down V2 when approaching the junction. PW2 immediately yelled at the defendant saying "Stop. It is a red light. It is going to crash." The defendant responded by saying "It's too late." A collision then occurred. Ngan had complained that her head hit the front board of V2 because of the collision.
11. Unfortunately, Ngan was certified dead on 30 June 2016, nine days after the incident. The causes of death were acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure and hypoxic brain damage. No intervening antecedent causes of death were identified. It transpired that Ngan has some pre-existing medical problems prior to this incident.
12. In a video-recorded interview, the defendant said that he has been a taxi driver for 18 years and was the driver of V2 at the time. He worked as a night shift taxi driver on the day from 5:30 pm to 4 am on the next. He said the condition of V2 was fine. dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving dangerous driving 