Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing death - using vehicle fitted with pneumatic tyre having portion of ply or cord structure exposed - using public light bus without affixing plate marked legibly and correctly with information specified on fitted speed limiter or on place adjacent to speed limiter - public light bus driven by defendant travelled at excessive speed with no obligatory headlamps turned on for about 17 minutes, and hit and killed pedestrian crossing road hurriedly - defendant’s culpability considered Facts: Charge 1
 3. Defendant was a PLB driver. One evening in February 2016, after 8 pm, he was driving a PLB on the road in Tai Po. The road speed limit there was 50 kilometres per hour. A 23-year-old man, the Deceased, came out of a bus-stop on the right side. Between that bus-stop and Defendant's northwest-bound lane, there was another lane (the southeast-bound lane). A double-decker bus was passing in the southeast-bound lane at that time. Apparently, that bus had hindered the view of the Deceased from seeing Defendant's PLB oncoming. It also hindered Defendant's seeing the Deceased, who had been coming out of the bus-stop to cross the road.
4. The Deceased at that time was late for dinner at a housing estate on the other side of the road. Therefore, he must be crossing the road hurriedly. When he reached the northwest-bound lane, he was hit by the nearside front of Defendant's PLB. He was seriously injured and died a day later in hospital.
5. During the trial, I find that when Defendant noticed the Deceased on the road, he applied brake at EDRD time 20.13.28.00. At that time, the real speed of the PLB was around 64 kilometres per hour. Defendant could not stop his PLB in time to avoid colliding with the Deceased, who was severely injured and later died as a result of the collision.
6. I find that Defendant started to speed from EDRD time 20.13.10.80. Thus, he had been speeding for about 17 seconds by the time he applied brake at 20.13.28.00. During those 17 seconds, the PLB's real speed was above 50 kilometres per hour but below 58 kilometres per hour for the first 11 seconds, (20.13.10.80 to 20.13.21.60). For the next six seconds, Defendant was travelling at a real speed of 58 kilometres per hour or above. His PLB reached the highest real speed of 64 kilometres per hour at 20.13.27.20. Defendant applied his brake at 20.13.28.00. The vehicle came to a halt after four seconds at 20.13.32.00.
7. I find that if Defendant had travelled within the road speed limit, he could have stopped in time to avoid the accident.
8. The fatal collision was on one end caused by the Deceased's own carelessness in crossing the road hurriedly without first checking clearly whether there was oncoming traffic on the northwest-bound lane. On the other end, it was caused by Defendant's speeding as said.
9. The speeding, while not for too long a time or being at excessive figures, was dangerous in the circumstance because Defendant was speeding in an area where he knew from his experience that there might be people jaywalking out of the said bus-stop to cross the road rather than using a traffic-light-controlled pedestrian crossing nearby.
10. The situation was aggravated by the fact that Defendant had only turned on the obligatory front lamps but not the obligatory headlamps for about 17 minutes prior to the accident. That by itself was also dangerous driving.
11. While the failure of turning on the obligatory headlamps was not a cause of the accident, Defendant would certainly be able to see more clearly of the road ahead at that hour of 8 pm if he had turned on the obligatory headlamps. If Defendant had done so, that might also have made the Deceased more alert of the oncoming of the PLB.
12. Defendant was guilty of dangerous driving causing death by his speeding in the circumstance with the aggravating factor of not turning on the obligatory headlamps for some 17 minutes prior to the accident.
 Charge 2 and Charge 3
 13. Charge 2 and Charge 3 are about defects of the vehicle (see indictment for the particulars). These two offences had no bearing to the occurrence of Charge 1.
14. Defendant pleads guilty to Charge 2 and Charge 3 on the basis that they are absolute offences, that is, he did not commit those offences in a knowing way. 