Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing grievous bodily harm - using vehicle with fitting other than in good and serviceable condition - light goods vehicle with irregularities driven by the defendant jumped red traffic light knocked down 19-year-old pedestrian crossing road legitimately at pedestrian crossing, causing acute brain injury - victim still suffering from hearing impairment in right ear and double vision - defendant’s culpability considered 3. The charges arose from a traffic accident which took place on a traffic light-controlled pedestrian crossing at Waterloo Road, Hong Kong, Kowloon.
4. At about 1 am on 22 September 2016, Miss Lau Ka Yee (aged 19, "the victim") started to cross the road slowly when the pedestrian light switched to her favour. After she had taken about 10 steps, she was knocked down on the second lane by a light goods vehicle owned and driven by the defendant.
5. The crossing in question was a two-direction, six-lane road separated by a safety island. The speed limit was 50 kilometres per hour. The weather was fine and visibility good. The road surface was dry and the traffic volume moderate. The traffic lights at the crossing were functioning normally.
6. When the accident occurred, the pedestrian light was green. There were no other cars stopping at the crossing and the victim had almost reached the safety island. The CCTV footage of a nearby building revealed that the defendant drove through the crossing at a consistent but moderate speed before the impact. Its brake light was on at or right after the collision.
7. After the accident, it was observed that the front bumper of the defendant's vehicle was slightly deformed.
8. Subsequent investigation revealed the following irregularities on the light goods vehicle, which resulted in the two additional charges:- 
 (1) the front windscreen was cracked and not properly repaired;
 (2) the automatic retraction function of the driver's safety belt was obstructed by a clip clamped onto the seatbelt webbing.
 
 Injuries to the victim
 9. The accident left the victim unconscious. She had a large laceration on the back of her head and was bleeding from the right ear. Detailed examination in Queen Elizabeth Hospital revealed acute brain injuries, fracture of the occipital skull bone, subsegmental collapses of the lung.
10. She had to undergo two brain surgeries and had remained unconscious until 4 October 2016. She remained hospitalised until 18 November 2016.
11. Owing to the traumatic cranial nerve contusion she sustained, the victim still suffers from hearing impairment in the right ear and double vision. The fracture in the longitudinal right temporal bone affects her right ear cavity.
 Discussions
 12. The maximum penalty for causing grievous bodily harm by  dangerous   driving  is a fine at level 5 and imprisonment for 7 years.
13. The predominant sentencing principle for this offence is general deterrence. It also has the secondary purpose of educating the public as to the potential dangers to others involving driving a motor vehicle and that social responsibility rests on the shoulders of drivers to drive safely and with due regard to others.
14. The predominant consideration is the culpability of the driving: see the judgment of HKSAR v Lee Yau Wing, CACC 282/2012 
. The effect of the driving on the victim is also a relevant consideration: Secretary for Justice v Poon Wing Kay [2007] 1 HKLRD 660 
at 66A,D. 