Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving causing grievous bodily harm - car driven by defendant did not stop despite red vehicular traffic light at pedestrian crossing and hit pedestrian crossing road, causing multiple injuries - defendant had had impeccable driving record for 37 years, and offence caused by momentary lapse of attention - whether community service order warranted 2. The traffic accident occurred at the pedestrian crossing near No.342 Jockey Club Road in Fanling ("the Crossing"). Jockey Club Road ("the Road") is a 2-way carriageway with 2 lanes for each direction. There is a divider separating the vehicular traffic of each direction. At the time of the accident, the road surface was dry and the traffic flow was moderate.
3. About 4:55 p.m. on 21 June 2016, Mr. LO (PW1) was at the Crossing waiting for the pedestrian traffic light to turn green. He starting crossing the Road after the light turned green.
4. Madam KO ("the Victim") was also crossing the Road on PW1's left, slightly in front of him. When PW1 had taken 2 to 3 steps onto the Crossing, the Victim reached the 2nd lane of the Road. At that moment, a private car (MK6631) driven by the defendant appeared. It was moving along the 2nd lane and went past the Victim.
5. PW1 heard a sound of collision and saw the Victim swivelling to the left and falling onto the ground. The defendant's car moved forward for about 50 metres before stopping and reversing to the roadside.
6. Mr. NG (PW2) was driving a lorry along the 1st lane of the Road. The vehicular traffic light was turning amber when he was 5 to 6 car lengths away from the Crossing. PW2 stopped for the red light behind a private car. There were no vehicles on the 2nd lane at that time. About 3 to 4 seconds later, the defendant's car, which was travelling along the 2nd lane, went past PW2's lorry. The defendant's car did not slow down and continued moving onto the Crossing. PW2 then saw the Victim lying on the ground at the Crossing.
7. At the time of the accident, the pedestrian traffic light at the Crossing was green and the vehicular traffic light was red. Both sets of traffic lights were functioning normally at that time.
8. The Victim was sent to Nethersole Hospital in Tai Po. She was suffering from head injury and shoulder pain. X-ray revealed right shoulder joint dislocation and a fracture of her right 3rd and 4th ribs. She remained at Nethersole Hospital for a week and was transferred to Tai Po Hospital for rehabilitation until 14 July 2016. She was granted sick leave for 17 days. 