Criminal sentencing - road traffic offences - dangerous     driving - driving while disqualified - using a motor vehicle without third party insurance
Criminal sentencing - dangerous drugs - trafficking - 1.47 g cocaine The Incident
 2. At around 4:30 a.m. on 13 August 2016, the police set up a roadblock at westbound Tsuen Wan Road near Chainage 15.5 W, Tsuen Wan, New Territories, in Hong Kong ("Roadblock"). At the material time, the road surface was dry, there was sufficient lighting from street lamps and the traffic flow was light.
3. At around 4:57 a.m. of the same day, police officers stopped a private car bearing registration mark TD7457 ("V") at the Roadblock. PC 10776 then asked the driver of V, later known to be the Defendant, to produce his driving licence. V suddenly accelerated and fled the Roadblock. PC 1872 ("PW1") onboard AM8074 ("PV") gave chase with PV's sirens turned on. During the pursuit, PW1 witnessed the following: 
 (a) Near Chainage 16.2 of Tsuen Wan Road, V was travelling at a speed of around 130-140km/h where the speed limit was 70 km/h;
 (b) The Defendant drove along the slip road near Chainage 16.7 of Tsuen Wan Road, entered the roundabout at Hoi Hing Road, turned right into Hoi Kok Street, turned left into Hoi Shing Road, turned right into Chai Wan Kok Street, turned left into Tai Chung Road and then accelerated;
 (c) At the junction between Tai Chung Road and Sha Tsui Road, the Defendant violated the road marking and drove straight ahead via the 3rd lane which was right-turn only;
 (d) At Tai Chung Road near Pak Tin Par Street, the Defendant dropped his mobile phone out of the driver seat's window, which was later recovered;
 (e) At the junction between Tai Chung Road and Castle Peak Road, the Defendant jumped the red light and drove on at around 100 km/h;
 (f) At Sai Lau Kok Road, the Defendant was about to turn left and was decelerating, PV was at V's left rear and the Defendant suddenly steered left. PV immediately dodged to the left and decelerated to avoid collision. At the closest point, V and PV were only around half a feet apart;
 (g) The Defendant drove on and when he reached the junction between Sai Lau Kok Road and Tai Ho Road, he suddenly crossed the double white lines, jumped the red light and turned right onto Tai Ho Road where it travelled against the direction of traffic;
 (h) PV followed V and got to V's left while turning right into Tai Ho Road. V then suddenly leaned to the left towards the front of PV and PW1 immediately decelerated, but V's left rear still collided with the right front part of PV. During the collision, PW1 hit his head onto the right window and sprained his neck; and
 (i) V continued driving against the direction of traffic on Tai Ho Road and turned right onto Castle Peak Road, after which V suddenly slowed down. The Defendant then got off V and fled. V continued moving forward at around 10 km/h with no driver on board.
 
4. V moved forward onto the pavement, hit the wall of Nan Fung Centre near lamppost DC 2228 and finally came to a halt. PW1 got off PV and chased after the Defendant, who was running into the bus terminus at Nan Fung Centre, Castle Peak Road. PW1 was around 3m behind him and never lost sight of him. He was finally intercepted inside the bus terminus after running for about 80m.
5. The police pursuit lasted for around 3 minutes and a distance of around 4 km.
6. PW1 was sent to Yan Chai Hospital where he was found to suffer from head injury and neck pain.
7. Those are the facts for the 1st Charge.
 The Arrest
 8. PC 33959 ("PW2") arrived at the scene and arrested the Defendant. Under caution, the Defendant admitted that he had something on him and was scared so he fled.
9. PW2 searched the him and found from his front left trouser pocket one transparent resealable plastic bag containing white solids suspected to be dangerous drugs ("Exhibit"), later confirmed by the government chemist as 1.57 grammes of a solid containing 1.47 grammes of cocaine. Those are the facts for the 4th Charge.
10. PW2 arrested him for driving whilst disqualified, driving without third party insurance, and possession of a dangerous drug. Under caution, he admitted those offences.
 The Damage to V and PV
 11. V was examined at Tai Lam Chung Vehicle Examination Centre. The left side of its rear bumper was found to be damaged and loosened. PV was inspected by the EMSD. Parts of its front bumper were found to be deformed and scratched. Its right front fender was slightly dented and scratched. Its right headlamp protective grille was deformed.
 The Investigation
 12. Three fingerprints were lifted from the inside of the rear-view mirror of V. They were found to belong to the Defendant. The Transport Department confirmed that the traffic lights in question were in normal operation at the material time.
13. The Defendant had never obtained a full driving licence. He was issued a learner's licence on 8 January 2015, which had already expired on 7 January 2016. Further, he was disqualified from holding or obtaining a driver licence on 27 May 2016 for a period of 24 months. Therefore, he was driving while disqualified at the material time. Those are the facts for the 2nd Charge.
14. SIU was the owner of V and only person listed as the named driver under V's third party risks insurance policy. The insurance company confirmed that the Defendant would not be covered under the policy as he was driving without a valid licence. Those are the facts for the 3rd Charge.
15. The repair cost of PV is $26,656.
 The Cautioned Interviews
 16. Three cautioned interviews were conducted with the Defendant on the same day, during which he admitted the following: 
 (a) At around 1 a.m. on the offence date, he borrowed V from his friend SIU to go for a joyride. He told SIU that he had a driving licence. SIU did not check his licence since they were close friends;
 (b) He drove to Shing Mun Reservoir alone and stayed there until around 4-5 a.m. He then drove towards Kwai Chung to get home;
 (c) He fled when he was intercepted at the Roadblock as he was disqualified from driving in May 2016 and had no driving licence to produce to the police. He had never obtained a full driving licence;
 (d) He got more nervous when he was chased by the police so he just drove wherever he could. He jumped two red lights and drove against the direction of traffic on westbound Castle Peak Road. He was also speeding as he was scared. His highest speed was around 100 km/h;
 (e) When he was driving along Castle Peak Road against the direction of traffic, he saw PV getting close so he immediately braked and hit PV's front with V's rear. After the collision he immediately got off the car and ran; and
 (f) The Exhibit was a packet of cocaine for his self-consumption. He purchased it in Jordan for $1,000 before going to SIU's home the night before the offence. He took drugs once or twice a week and had been an addict for 2-3 years.
 
 Personal background and mitigation
 17. He is 26 years of age, of secondary education level. He is single and lives with his parents and an elder sister. He worked as a transportation worker before arrest. His monthly salary was about $11,000. He had the following criminal records: 
 (a) 3 for Possession of dangerous drugs (fined $2,500 on 5 January 2009, sentenced to 14 months on 3 March 2014, and sentenced to DATC on 12 January 2017 respectively);
 (b) 1 for Driving without a valid driving licence (sentenced to 1 month suspended for 2 years and fined $2,000 on 27 May 2016);
 (c) 1 for Using a motor vehicle without third party insurance (sentenced to 1 month suspended for 2 years concurrent with (b) above and fined $7,000 and disqualified for 24 months).
 
18. Ms. Liang informs me that he is prepared to apply his police bail money, $10,000, as partial contribution to the repair cost of $26,656 for PV. Thus I order payment into court. 