Criminal sentencing - dangerous     driving - driving while disqualified - using motor vehicle without third party insurance - using motor vehicle failing to comply with safety glass or safety glazing regulations Charge 1
 2. At around 3:14 a.m. on 21st December 2016, PC 60 was driving police car AM 8101 ("the Police Car") along Fanling Highway in Hong Kong towards Shatin with PC 5185 ("PW1") onboard. PW1 is a qualified operator of the ProVida 2000 system ("the System") and was operating the System onboard the Police Car at the material time. The System has a video camera that records the front of the Police Car and is used to calculate the speed of target vehicles. At the material time, it was raining lightly and the road surface was wet. There was sufficient lighting from street lamps. At around 3:15 a.m. of the same day, the Police Car was near Chainage 19.7A of Tolo Highway and PW1 saw a private car bearing registration mark RE 6430 ("V") cut from the third lane to the second lane and through the hatched area onto the first lane without signaling. The Police Car proceeded to follow V. When V reached Tai Po Tai Wo Road, where the speed limit was 50 km/h, the Police Car's flashing lights were turned on and PW1 through the loudspeaker ordered the driver of V, later known to be the Defendant, to slow down. The Defendant ignored the warnings and sped up to 80 km/h as indicated by the System. The Police gave chase and during the course of pursuit, PW1 observed the Defendant committing the following traffic violations, which were also captured by the System: 
 (a) He consistently drove V at around 80 to 100 km/h where the speed limits for the relevant roads were 50 km/h or 70 km/h;
 (b) He jumped a total of seven red lights. When he was jumping the red light at the junction between Tai Po Tai Wo Road and Po Heung Street, an unknown car travelling along Po Heung Street had to brake suddenly to avoid collision with V;
 (c) He cut between lanes twice without signaling;
 (d) He drove V against the direction of traffic for around 180 metres at the junction between Chung Nga Road and Ting Lai Road; and
 (e) He turned right onto Ting Kok Road where only left turns are permitted and drove against traffic for around 200 metres towards Block 1 of Tai Ping Industrial Centre ("the Centre").
 
3. The Defendant then turned right into the car park of the Centre, alighted V and fled up the staircase of the Centre. V continued moving forward, collided with a metal gate and came to a halt. No damage was caused to the metal gate. Miss PANG Tsz-yan was found on board the front passenger seat of V and she stated that the Defendant was driving V at the material time.
4. The police pursuit lasted for 3 minutes and a distance of 4.7 km.
 Charges 2 and 3
 5. The Defendant was disqualified from holding or obtaining a licence from 11th September 2015 to 10th September 2018. V was registered under the name of one Mr. NG Po-lam ("NG"). V's third party insurance policy did not have the Defendant listed as a named driver. The policy only covers drivers who hold a valid licence and are not disqualified from doing so.
 Charge 4
 6. Subsequently V was examined at Tai Lam Chung Vehicle Examination Centre and the front registration mark plate was found to be damaged, likely resulting from V's collision with the metal gate outside the Centre. Another mechanical defect was also found, where the offside rear window glass were adhered with dark plastic sheet that obscures the view of the interior of the motor vehicle whereby the ability of such safety glass or safety glazing to transmit light was decreased.
 Arrest and Cautioned Interview
 7. Police officers swept the area and at 4:56 a.m. of the same day, the Defendant was found hiding at the staircase between the 4th and 5th floor of the Centre. PW1 arrested the Defendant, who admitted under caution that he was driving without a licence and fled because he was scared.
8. The Defendant was interviewed on the same day, during which he admitted, inter alia, the following: 
 (a) He borrowed V from NG in the afternoon on 20th December 2016. He lied to NG that he held a valid driving licence;
 (b) He had a learner's licence in 2011 but was disqualified from obtaining a driving licence in 2015. He had never obtained one since then;
 (c) He was driving V at the material time. He had driven over the hatched area on Tolo Highway as he realized he had taken the wrong way and immediately steered left to change paths;
 (d) He did not stop despite police warnings as he was driving without a licence and was scared of being arrested. He knew that he was driving against the direction of traffic at some points but he did not care and just wanted to flee; and
 (e) After he met a dead end at the Centre, he left the car and ran inside where he hid under a van inside the car park. He then hid at the staircase on the 4th floor.
 