
Westlaw Asia Delivery Summary

Request made by : USER   WLA_IP

Request made on : Saturday, 03 March, 2018 at 23:53 HKT

  

Client ID : ChineseU_WLA-1

Title : Yau Kar Kwai v Shan Jigesh Rajnibhai

Delivery selection : Current Document

Number of documents delivered : 1




Yau Kar Kwai v Shan Jigesh Rajnibhai



5 January 2018
District Court
DC
Civil Action No 4752 of 2017
DCCJ 4752/2017

Citations:[2018] HKEC 244 English Judgment

Presiding Judges: Judge Justin Ko in Chambers

Phrases: <Y<Civil procedure - default judgment - action for nuisance, negligence and breach of deed of mutual covenant - judgment granted>Y>

Counsel in the Case: Mr Timothy Lam, instructed by Chung & Kwan, for the plaintiffBoth defendants in person did not appear

DECISION: 


His Honour Judge Ko in Chambers
<Y<1. This is the plaintiff's application for default judgment.
2. The plaintiff is the owner of Flat 10 on 4/F of Kiu Fung Mansion, and the defendants are the owners of the flat above.
3. According to the statement of claim, water has been seeping from the defendants' premises into the plaintiff's premises since May 2017, causing damage to property, inconvenience and discomfort. The plaintiff's surveyor has determined that the seepage is due to a leakage in the floor slab and walls and the flushing system in the bathroom inside the master bedroom of the defendants' premises.
4. By this action, the plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief as well as unliquidated damages based on nuisance, negligence and breach of the applicable DMC.>Y>
5. According to the affirmation of the process server, the writ was sent to the defendants by registered <G<post on 27 October. By operation of Order 10, rule 1(3)(a), service was deemed to be effected on the 7th day after posting. The defendants had 14 days to acknowledge service. However, the defendants did not give any notice of intention to defend, and the plaintiff proceeded with this action as if the defendants had done so under Order 13, rule 6. The defendants then had 28 days to file a defence, and>G> the last day for them to do so was 14 December.
6. The defendants have failed to serve a defence, and the plaintiff took out the summons for default judgment on 27 December.
7. Sadly, the plaintiff passed away on 29 December. Pursuant to the Order 15, rule 7(2), I grant an order to make the plaintiff's daughter a party to these proceedings and for the proceedings to be carried on as if she had been substituted for the deceased.
8. It is trite that in circumstances where no defence has been filed, the court will assume that the statement of claim has been impliedly admitted: see Whitebook, para.19/2/1. In the premises, I am satisfied that the plaintiff is entitled to judgment based on the matters and the causes of action pleaded in the statement of claim. In particular, given the negative covenant in the DMC and the fact that the defendants have failed and refused to carry out repair to rectify the seepage, I agree with the plaintiff's counsel (Mr Lam) that a mandatory injunction in terms of the draft order should be ordered in the exercise of my discretion.
9. I therefore enter judgment against the defendants in terms of the draft order placed before me.
10. I also order that the 1st and 2nd defendants do pay the plaintiff's costs of this action, including the costs of this application, summarily assessed at HK$25,000.00 (including the full fee charged by counsel).

 © 2018 Thomson Reuters 







